Prague Stock Market falls to minus by the end of the trading day
After a sharp drop in the morning, the Prague Stock Market corrected its losses.
The Prague Stock Market immediately continued its fall from Monday at the beginning of Tuesday's trading, when it dropped by nearly six percent.
This time the fall in stocks on Wall Street is responsible for the drop.
The reaction of the market to the results of the vote in the American House of Representatives, which refused to support the plan for the stabilization of the financial sector there, has manifested itself here as well.
Stocks fall in Asia
Stocks in the Asian markets experienced a dramatic drop on Tuesday, even though the indexes ultimately erased a part of the losses during the day.
The Hang Seng Index of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange wrote off nearly four percent during the day, but later it erased a part of the losses and reduced the decrease to roughly 2.5 percent.
The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index, which follows the movement of Chinese stocks on the stock market in Hong Kong, dropped by 3.8 percent, in Shanghai the markets were closed.
Stocks on the market in Sydney lost more than five percent, but ultimately lowered their losses to 4.3 percent.
The stock exchange in Taiwan dropped by 3.6 percent according to the local index.
"The timing of the bailout action in the USA is uncertain and it will influence financial markets all over the world," remarked the head of the Hong Kong Currency Board, Joseph Yam.
Despite the fact that it is a part of China, Hong Kong determines its currency policy separately, that is, without being dependent on the Chinese Central Bank.
Hong Kong has interest rates at the same level as the United States.
American legislators should quickly return to their negotiations and approve the bill to support the financial system, according to Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd.
Otherwise there reputedly looms the threat that other countries will also feel the impacts.
American stock bloodbath
On Monday the American House of Representatives rejected the plan to support the financial system, into which up to 700 billion dollars (nearly 12 billion Czech crowns) was to be invested.
The legislators thus ignored President George Bush's appeal for them to support the plan.
According to Bush, the plan would tackle the basic causes of the financial crisis and help stabilize the entire economy.
American stocks suffered a bloodbath on Monday and the major stock indexes registered their greatest fall in more than 20 years.
The Dow Jones Index dropped by nearly seven percent, having registered a similarly-ranged fall the last time in 1987.
The index had dropped even prior to the vote, but as soon as it was revealed that the bill had not passed in the House, the index went into free fall.
Congress yields: US government can pump 700 billion dollars into banks
The top representatives of the American Congress and George W. Bush's cabinet have agreed upon a broader form of the agreement on financial assistance for the American financial system.
The vote on it will take place at the beginning of next week.
American legislators made a breakthrough in their talks about the approval of a bailout plan in the form of financial assistance for the American financial system amounting to 700 billion dollars (approximately 12 billion crowns).
But all is not won yet.
That is, the members of congress have to complete some details of the agreement before they can make the final version of the law public and vote on it.
The plan to support the financial system will be discussed in the House of Representatives on Monday.
The chair of the Financial Services Committee, Barney Frank, told Reuters this on Sunday.
Sources say that the senate could evidently vote on the plan on Wednesday at the soonest.
Economists say that the announcement that the bailout plan will be approved should be the first psychological factor significant to the revival of financial markets.
Afterward, however, a "sobering up" will take place due to the complicated nature of the mechanisms with which assistance to the markets can be achieved in practice.
Paulson: Plan must be effective
"We've made great progress.
We've resolved our differing opinions on how the package for the stabilization of markets should look," Democrat Nancy Pelosi told Bloomberg.
According to her, the final vote could take place as early as Sunday.
Representatives of the legislators met with American Finance Minister Henry Paulson Saturday night in order to give the government fund a final form.
The fund is meant to purchase unsellable mortgage assets which are pulling financial companies down into heavy losses and are endangering the stability of the entire system.
"We're on the edge of a definitive agreement on a plan which will function and which also must be effective on the market.
It's necessary to continue in the curative plan, but I think we're there," Paulson said.
A signal for Asian trading
The global financial crisis is significantly impacting the stock markets, which are dropping sharply.
According to Nevada Democratic senator Harry Reid, that is how that legislators are trying to have Congress to reach a definitive agreement as early as on Sunday.
Namely, by doing this they want to calm investors prior to trading on the Asian financial markets, which, given their time zones, are the first ones where the decision by Congress could influence Monday's trading.
In the meantime, however, it is not yet clear with any certainty when both chambers of the American Congress will vote on the bill, nor whether the negotiations will not become hindered by some problem.
The legislators hope that it will be approved in the next few days.
However, the bill will still go through a series of changes.
The total amount designated for assistance to the system is to be divided into two parts.
The initial 350 billion dollars is to become available as soon as possible, as requested by president George Bush.
But Congress can block the release of the remaining amount, in the sequence of a further 100 billion dollars and later, the final 350 billion dollars, if it has the impression that the program is not fulfilling its function.
Bush appreciates progress in negotiations
Though the president can veto this decision, Congress can override his veto.
Even in spite of these changes, the essential idea of the program, to gain finances for the buyout of bad mortgage stocks, the value of which had dropped because hundreds of thousands of Americans were unable to pay off their mortgages, has remained intact.
"We've drawn it all up.
The House of Representatives should be able to vote on the bill on Sunday and the Senate on Monday," said Republican senator Judd Gregg.
Even American president Bush is satisfied with the progress in negotiations.
His speaker Tony Fratto declared that Bush was satisfied with Saturday's progress and appreciated the "two-party effort to stabilize our financial markets and save our economy".
Constraining golden parachutes
The chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, Christopher Dodd, the chief negotiator, said that the legislators had agreed upon the responsibilities for the financial program, protection of the taxpayers against losses, closing of relief packages, and timing of the financial plan.
The new law is also meant to constrain the "golden parachutes" for the heads of the companies participating in the program and establishes a committee which will oversee the fund.
The committee is to be directed by the Ministry of Finance.
"We've worked very hard on this and we've made great progress toward an agreement that will work and that will be useful for all Americans," Paulson said.
The plan also includes assistance to homeowners who have problems making their payments.
The cabinet should negotiate new payments for the mortgages it buys, with the aim of lowering the monthly payment costs for those in debt and enabling them to keep their houses.
Marek: Psychological help
According to the chief economist of Patria Finance, David Marek, the proposed plan is a good idea, but its realization will be very difficult.
"And this is because it is not known through what mechanism and for what price the problematic assets will be bought.
This will determine how the financial sector and the cabinet will divide the losses amongst themselves," Marek told the server iHNed.cz this week.
Whether the plan is approved now or at the beginning of next week is not so significant, according to Marek.
"More important is for the members of congress to agree this week to support the plan and to approve it as soon as possible.
The psychological significance of the agreement that the approval will take place is the most important thing at this time," Marek emphasized.
Razor's edge battle: MP3 players vs. cell phones.
Our advice on how to choose
While nearly every cell phone can play MP3 files, no MP3 player can make phone calls.
This makes it seem clear that it is better to only buy a phone.
In spite of this, there are many reasons to get a separate MP3 player.
The choice depends entirely on the manner of use and demands of the future owner.
It is not likely that you will get a top-of-the-line expensive record player in order to listen to the newest album by Maxim Turbulenc.
First of all such music products not available on LPs, but also, from the qualitative point of view there no objective reason for it.
However, if your shelves are crowded with art rock, jazz, or blues vinyl records, you are likely at least dreaming of a record player like that.
It's the same with music on trips, that is, compressed music, simply put, MP3 music.
There are price and qualitative categories here as well.
For some, it can be unacceptable to spend eight thousand crowns on an MP3 player, just as it is hard for Pink Floyd fan to accept twenty-crown headphones from a market hall.
Two extremes, between which there is enough space for everyone.
The selection is broad.
Battery life also decides
Some top-of-the-line music players can do much more than merely play music, but also what most cell phones can't even do by chance.
No contemporary machine is as universal as the telephone.
In addition to the primary functions, calling and texting, it can play music and video, record both, contains a camera which is sometimes better and sometimes worse and can even navigate in some cases.
And when we take smart phones and communication devices, you have a small computer in your pocket.
It's a small miracle, as there is no refrigerator that knows how to grill and no television can take pictures.
The universal nature of the cell phone also brings disadvantages.
The more functions you use on your cell phone, the sooner the indicator on your display will send you running for the charger.
And playing music is one of the biggest energy guzzlers.
Very few cell phones can play music for longer than ten to twelve hours, most of them much less.
In this way, music players (particularly the simplest ones) are much more efficient.
Which is why you should count on the fact that inexpensive cell phones will not play for more than a few hours.
If you occasionally make calls in addition to that, to be on the safe side, get another charger for your workplace - even for more expensive devices.
You won't have this problem with MP3 players, even worse ones last at least 9 straight hours running on one charge.
Another problem arises when recording music on the cell phone.
Unfortunately, only a limited percentage of the devices contain a universal USB connector, and on top of that, not every one of those can be directly connected to a computer without special software.
Of course, music can be recorded directly onto a memory card, but very few card readers can handle the miniature memory cards used in the cell phones without an adaptor.
For the music players, with some exceptions (iPod), you don't need any special software.
It's enough to fill the device with music using the USB from the computer.
Most cell phones and music players already create a music library by themselves, organized according to the artist's name, album title, genre, or, e.g., user rating.
Some devices only display the tree structure of the directory, similar to Windows Explorer and some are able to do both (iriver, Samsung, Sony, Cowon, smart phones with an operating systems).
Music players easier to service, cell phones can do more
In choosing specific equipment, you should be interested above all in the life of the battery, the capacity of the memory, the quality and type of the audio output, and of course also the user-friendly nature of the operation.
If music is above all a background setting for you and if you are only going to listen to it for a little while, perhaps in the tram, any cell phone which plays MP3 is enough.
Which almost any cell phone is truly able to do.
You don't even have to pay too much attention to which music formats the cell phone or music player can handle.
The MP3 can handle all of them, and in fact, most of the music you will get will be in this very format.
It one of the most widespread formats and in addition to it, the absolute majority of devices can also handle music in WMA format.
Less common is the appearance of AAC (the format used by the Apple company and its iPods).
Better cell phones, at the same time, enable the purchase of music on-line.
All you have to do to buy a song or album is visit the pages of the given operator (or another provider) using mobile Internet.
This service by itself could be a substantial reason for obtaining a music cell phone.
Unfortunately the offerings from the operators are paltry and are usually limited to fast-growing radio hits.
The prices are also not among the lowest.
It is generally assumed, however, that this very manner of music sales (whether using GSM, the Internet or wireless Internet) will take over the music industry in the future.
Most people have their cell phone on them at all times.
Whenever you feel like listening to something, you can reach for your cell phone in your pocket, while the MP3 player lies at home, forgotten.
However, it still depends on whether you always have headphones or at least the wire hands-free with you.
If not, you can utilize the integrated speaker that is in almost all cell phones, but only in a minimum of MP3 players.
But the greatest advantage of the music cell phones for many people is the price.
The least expensive of them regularly cost less than three thousand crowns.
For three or four thousand crowns, you can get a very decent walkman.
Usually, however, you'll be limited by the absence of output on ordinary headphones.
The best and most technically well-equipped telephones, with a 3.5 mm jack for ordinary headphones, cost up to fifteen thousand crowns.
The advantage of the music players, on the other hand, is, among other reasons, that they are easy to operate.
Anyone can handle the operation of the simplest - not necessarily the most inexpensive (see our selection) - music players.
The minimum of functions and similarity in operation to the formerly common cassette recorder or even the record player is apparent.
There is no threat of a clash in the form of mobile Internet turned on by accident and the resulting enormous bill for data transmission.
What device to reach for
Even the least expensive cell phones (e.g. Vodafone 527) generally have a slot for replaceable memory cards (of the type M2, microSD and the like).
Even with the additional purchase of the respective card, you will spend less than two thousand crowns.
Be careful, however.
With the basic models, only cards with a maximum capacity of 2 GB tend to be supported.
Only the most expensive ones can also handle 8 GB memory cards.
If you already have a cell phone and want to buy an inexpensive MP3 player, reach for Cowon, Creativ, Sony, Samsung, Emgeton or iriver.
Based on capacity (maximum 2 GB) you don't have to spend more than 1,100 crowns.
If you are a more demanding listener, reach instead for specialized cell phones - walkman (Sony Ericsson, some Nokia and Samsung models).
These devices have separate control buttons for MP3 and the user-friendly nature of their operation is close to that of a separate MP3 player.
Sony Ericsson, whose cell phones from the walkman series have the same user interface as the MP3 players sold separately, is the most advanced in the field.
The MP3 players from the brands mentioned above deliver the same service and in the same price category up to four thousand crowns, but with a greater memory capacity (up to 16 GB) and battery endurance (normally 15 hours, maximally up to 35 hours).
First virtual operator to arrive in Czechia this year.
Maybe
The mobile market in Czechia is quite advanced and local operators offer practically all the same services as their partners in Western Europe.
In spite of this, there is something missing here - a virtual operator who would force the classic operators to lower their prices.
It might be missing for a long time.
We have already written many times on Mobil.cz about the fact that Czech operators are among the most expensive in Europe.
This has also been confirmed by the Czech Telecommunications Bureau, who called attention to the fact that the price of a text message is higher here than in the rest of the Union.
Following the most recent steps taken by the European Commission in the field of regulation of the roaming fees, a paradoxical situation may occur - text messages for some customers of Czech mobile operators will be cheaper from abroad than at home.
How is it possible that the prices in Czechia remain so high in comparison with Europe?
The answer is simple, there is a lack of competitors who would really like to enter into battle.
Perhaps it sounds paradoxical, after all, we have three mobile networks here and over 100% coverage.
Mobile operators, on the other hand, like to pretend that the Czech market is extremely competitive.
It is probably true that a classical operator with its own network no longer has much chance (for that matter, it would be very difficult to find frequencies).
But there is one more opportunity - a virtual operator.
It is precisely the entrance of the virtual operators on the mobile market that brought the significant lowering of prices, to which even the classic operators had to react.
At the same time, even before the entrance on the market of aggressive competitors such as Tesco Mobile or Virgin Mobile, voices similar to those here could be heard.
But it has turned out that there is a place for such operators and they can be truly successful.
For that matter, we don't have to go far to find examples.
In February of this year, we informed you of the start of the virtual operator Mobilking in Poland.
Over the course of merely half a year, this operator was able to gain more than 100 thousand customers and become the fifth largest operator.
At the same time, the financial group Penta, which owns, among others, U:fon, stands behind Mobilking.
The advantage of the virtual operators is the opportunity to concentrate on a much more specific target group.
In order to function effectively, they require many fewer customers than a classic operator does.
That is, they do not carry the relatively high costs of construction, operation and maintenance of a mobile network.
In this way, virtual operators around the world usually profile themselves as low-cost - they offer inexpensive calling and text messages, which is often balanced out by a more limited offer of services, though.
That's how, for example, Tesco Mobile in Great Britain can offer text messaging for at least fifty percent less than its competitors.
But as the example of Mobilking in Poland shows, it can be a rather good move and a bet on a novel target group.
That is, this operator is specifically oriented toward men.
"Real men choose Mobilking - the operator that they like and can trust," says David Seibert, the CEO of Mobile Entertainment Company, which runs this virtual operator.
It is hard to say if a concept similar to the one in Poland could catch on here.
In addition, it's relatively saturated from the perspective of the offer of services."
No chance in Czechia, say mobile operators
It seems almost certain that if there is to be a virtual operator in Czechia, it won't be Mobilking.
"We have been talking about the expansion of this successful project, but the negotiations in Czechia don't look very hopeful.
She also confirmed indirectly that the current mobile operators in Czechia are definitely not inclined toward this idea.
Rather, on the contrary, they are trying to do everything they can so that no potential competitor comes into existence.
For a longer period of time now, the GTS Novera group has made no secret of its interest in launching a virtual mobile operator, and in this way it would like to take another step in the direction of becoming a real competitor of Telefonica O2 in the area of corporate clientele.
"We are very interested in being able to offer our customers not only hardwire telecommunication services, but also mobile ones.
The sooner, the better.
We have held repeated negotiations on this possibility with all Czech mobile operators.
We have already been able to make progress in the negotiations with some of them," said the group's spokesman, Pavel Kaidl.
Perhaps there are better times ahead.
On the basis of unofficial information, it looks like we can expect the first virtual operator as early as the end of this year.
In the meantime, however, its creation is accompanied by a wall of silence.
"At this time, we do not think that there is space for the creation of a full-fledged virtual operator.
Compared to other markets, the Czech market is very specific.
Other operators also refer to the specific nature of the Czech market.
And she added: "No virtual operator is likely to appear in the T-Mobile network by the end of the year.
At this moment, in order to be talking about such a short timeframe, we would already have to have a concrete agreement on the table."
Vodafone is placing its attention more upon fulfilling the requirements of its own 3G license.
From the perspective of the customers, we consider this to be the most beneficial.
Vodafone's main strategy in this area is to find a partner for the construction of a shared network for fast mobile Internet."
Responsible authorities - buddy-buddy with operators
The procedure of the mobile operators is easy to understand, the entrance of another operator would mean increased competition, it would lead to a decrease in prices and hence to a decrease in their profits.
Why, then, make this entrance easy for such a competitor?
The tug-of-war surrounding the creation of U:fon attests to the fact that when something is important to the operators, they are able to pull for the same team.
Probably the greatest pressure on the Czech Telecommunication Office was during the time of the creation of U:fon by T-Mobile.
Information publicly available from the Czech Telecommunication Office's web pages attests to this.
But now this is a suitable argument for U:fon to not allow the entrance of the virtual operator.
Considering the character of the mobile market in the Czech Republic, it is evident that the entrance of another player would place higher demands on it and above all on its services."
But considering this approach by the mobile operators, the lack of interest by the Czech regulatory organs is, in fact, startling.
This means not only the attitude of the CTO, which unfortunately in Czechia - unlike in Great Britain and other developed countries - does not have the authority to intervene in economic competition.
This authority belongs to the Office for the Protection of Competition (OPC) exclusively.
But this office has assumed its typical position on this whole issue.
"The entrance of a virtual operator on the mobile market would be possible after the signing of a contract on the rental of the necessary infrastructure between the mobile operator and the virtual operator.
A statement formulated in that way by representatives of the operators probably won't surprise anyone.
From the office that is supposed to represent the interests of consumers and, among other things, make sure that no one abuses his/her position on the market, it is more than serious.
But evidently the pressure on the proper functioning of the market environment and the decrease in prices are not among the interests of the OPC.
In truth, the shocking element of the whole case is the almost fluid harmony between the three mobile operators that is implicit in their reactions.
The question as to whether this is really just a coincidence arises entirely by itself.
Just like the exact same price of gasoline at the gas stations is surely just the product of coincidence and the tough competitive battle.
"The Office did not find any signs of actions violating the rules of competition, and thus has no reason to intervene in any way.
None of the operators have a dominant position, and hence none of them have the corresponding increased responsibility for their actions on the market.
The telecommunications regulator is most likely also lacking the instruments necessary to open the mobile market for the virtual operators," Chalupa claimed in his statement.
The interpretation of the dominant position on the market is one of the disputed points.
Of course, an analysis of the relevant markets does exist, conducted by CTO, according to which telecommunications are, from the perspective of competition, the only market.
On such a market, none of the Czech operators then have a dominant position.
But some legal experts offer a different perspective - in order to create a virtual operator, it is always necessary to gain the permission of the network operator.
And the mobile operator - entirely logically - has a monopoly on its network.
So in a certain segment, it must necessarily be dominant.
But even if we did not consider this argument, for the OPC it could be at least alarming that the three mobile operators are proceeding in a strikingly similar manner.
At the same time, complaints from a series of interested parties (including the GTS Novera company mentioned above) demonstrate that they are encountering very similar hurdles in their negotiations with all the operators.
Placing the responsibility on the CTO is a rather common trick in telecommunications, through which the OPC can have nothing to do with the whole matter.
We have already encountered it in several similar cases.
Unfortunately, it was not possible to establish the extension of the CTO's authority to the area of competition in telecommunications in the recently approved amendment to the Telecommunications Act, even though many experts had expected that this would improve the situation.
The representatives of the OPC must know this very well, but their interests are evidently elsewhere.
It can be done when nobody's looking
At the same time, the functioning of some pseudo-virtual operators, of which there are already several in Czech mobile networks, remains unnoticed.
These are companies which publish their own price lists for mobile telephone services, which are only partially public.
These are usually companies dealing with multilevel marketing.
For example, Amway, Bohemia Telecom, Starlife and a number of others offer their own mobile telephone services.
The price lists of these companies usually only reach selected individuals.
The trick lies in the fact that, in relation to the operator, the company acts like a classic company client who orders a great amount of SIM cards.
As a significant client, it then gets special price offers (and other types of offers).
The problem is that the trading conditions of all Czech mobile operators prohibit such advance sales.
But it is highly unlikely that activities like this would not be reported to the responsible people from the mobile operators.
This could be a question of thousands of customers, above all in the case of the three companies mentioned above.
But at the same time, none of the operators are opposed to such a procedure.
Namely, they make considerable profits from the activities of these companies and at the same time - unlike the real virtual operators - they do not present any sort of threat to them through their own official marketing.
On top of that, they must accept that the SIM card in their telephone is not registered under their name, and thus they cannot use all of its features like the regular customers of the mobile operators can."
This is precisely what should seem at least strange to the CTO.
In addition, another question for the OPC arises.
If the mobile operators are looking the other way concerning this procedure, why are they blocking the creation of a virtual operator?
It must be added that the OPC has rather considerable power to uncover such activities, and if it does not wish to, it does not have to be satisfied with operators' claims that they have no idea about any such thing and that their trading conditions prohibit it.
When we won't be the most expensive
As mentioned already several times in this article, the entrance of the virtual operators onto the mobile market was brought about by a notable drop in the prices of services.
At the same time, classical operators have more or less tried to prevent the creation of virtual operators practically in all countries where they have been created.
The arguments they used were practically identical - a market that was too small, too saturated, problems with the quality of services, etc.
But in developed countries, the regulatory organs, which supported the interests not of the mobile operators, but of their customers, intervened at that very moment.
Either through formal measures or informal pressure, they then achieved the creation of the first virtual operator, and others continued in its footsteps.
Unfortunately, the Czech regulatory organs have been tossing the whole case back and forth like a hot potato.
Based on our experience, we cannot get rid of the impression that the lack of clarity in competencies in these cases suits them very well.
But let's not throw in the towel.
If the behind-the-scenes information are correct and a virtual operator appears here soon, the Czech mobile market might be set in motion once again.
If one of the operators permits the creation of a virtual mobile operator, it will be difficult for OPC to be able to remain indifferent to the refusal (discrimination) of further interested parties.
And we might stop making calls that are more expensive than in the rest of Europe.
New Czech national anthem has four new versions.
Choose the best one
Listen to the four renderings of the new version of the Czech national anthem.
Four versions are available - versions with male or female solo vocals, a choral version and an instrumental version.
You can listen to all four versions on the server iHNed.cz.
He told Czech Radio earlier that he had intentionally selected singers with young, representative voices that were striking and popular for the solo variants.
"From the beginning, with both of them and also with the chorus, I tried to make sure that they had clear articulation, so that the text could be understood well, so that they were in harmony," he said.
The Czech national anthem will celebrate its 175th anniversary next year.
It gained popularity and the people spontaneously took it as their own.
The first stanza of the song then became a natural part of the national anthem following the creation of Czechoslovakia in 1918.
It remained one of the seven state symbols even following the creation of the independent Czech Republic.
How the "new" hymn sounds
Prague City Mass Transport to operate on chip for the first time on Wednesday
Wednesday, October 1, 2008 will be written into the history of the Prague Transport Company as the date when the first travellers board the metro, trams and buses with an electronic coupon in their pockets instead of a paper ticket.
The roughly one hundred thousand people in possession of their own chip card Opencard at this time can get this coupon.
By the afternoon, more than four hundred customers had used the service.
Those beginning to use Internet shopping can definitively forget about the vending windows in the metro stations, where up to now they have had to regularly stand in long lines for paper tickets.
That is, they can buy the coupon over the Internet and it will be added to the Opencard at one of the thirteen branches of the City Library.
In addition to libraries, it will also be possible to add the electronic coupons to the Opencard at the self-service machines which have been set up in several vestibules of the metro.
What do these self-service machines look like?
Coupon checked by self-service machine instead of driver
Using the self-service machines, which will begin functioning tomorrow, is simple.
All you have to do is insert the Opencard chip card, and the pre-paid card is automatically added to it.
The electronic coupons are valid beginning tomorrow not only in the capital city, but in its surroundings as well.
That is, in suburban trains and bus lines numbered 300 to 499, which are mainly used by inhabitants of Central Bohemian towns to travel into the capital city.
The suburban buses have card readers built into the cash register next to the driver's seat.
Upon boarding, it is thus necessary to not only show the chip card to the driver, but in addition it is necessary to place the Opencard on the designated spot on the side of the cash register.
This is how the driver checks the validity of the coupons recorded.
Travelers who do not use suburban buses, and will not remember when the validity of a coupon ends, can head again for the self-service machines where the coupons are added to the card.
Here the information on the validity of their documents will appear on the machine's screen.
Sudetenlands wanted referendum from USA
This is implicit in a letter stored in the collections of the South Bohemia Research Library.
If we cannot be a part of Germany or Austria, we wish at least to live under the patronage of the United States.
Several groups of Sudeten Germans supposedly addressed the president of the USA with a wish of this type.
This arises from, among other things, a letter which has been preserved in a private archive and is now stored in the collections of the South Bohemia Research Library.
"We cannot believe that without considering the opinion of a quarter of a million people, you would award this territory to a state foreign to us, which oppresses and oppugns minorities and which has contributed nothing, absolutely nothing, to the victory of the Allies," is written in the letter.
The reason why the authors could not sign their names was the supposed fear of revenge by the "Czech oppressors".
Even though the Czech Germans had to at least suspect that their displacement from the country would be discussed, almost none of them admitted this possibility at all.
Some expected that the United States and Great Britain would negotiate a certain type of autonomy for the Sudetenlands.
Others believed that they would simply remain in Czechoslovakia.
When he was captured by the British at the end of the war and placed in a prison camp in Holstein, tens of other Czech Germans went to him so that he would teach them Czech.
"They believed that when they returned home, Czech would come in handy," Chalupa said.
You don't think - you pay!
Emotive campaign attacks drivers
The most expensive action aimed at safety on the roads in Czech history.
That's also one way to characterize the emotive media campaign which the Ministry of Transportation plans to launch on Wednesday.
The 150-million-crown campaign will appear on television, on the radio, in cinemas, on the Internet, but also on flyers.
It should discourage drivers from speeding and driving under the influence of alcohol.
And also remind them to fasten their seatbelts before they start driving.
Above all, it aims to reach into the conscience of young drivers, motorcyclists, pedestrians, and last but not least, professional drivers.
And what appears in the spots?
Mainly human stories that attack the emotions.
And even the "bloody" slogan of the whole campaign attests to this:
You don't think - you pay!
The words "you don't think" are written in capital letters on a license plate.
And then the words "you pay" are in a pool of blood.
This is meant to symbolize that a person can pay for a moment of carelessness with his/her own life.
The spots will "haunt" the viewers until 2010.
The ministry found inspiration in similar campaigns in Anglo-Saxon countries, where it is common to find pictures with drastic images of accident victims.
It hopes that the accident rate and the number of deaths on the Czech roads will thus decrease.
The spots were prepared by the agency Euro RSCG.
Sugar and whip for drivers
"The drivers are influenced by the sugar and whip system.
The sugar for them is, for example, when they run a red light, they save time.
The whip is the threat of a fine or an accident.
And that's why information campaigns in the press and mainly negative advertising are necessary, the psychologist believes.
Less effective in his opinion are the tables which draw the drivers' attention to the danger.
Olmert would return nearly all occupied territories in exchange for peace
The prime minister of the provisional Israeli government, Ehud Olmert, expressed his opinion in favour of the restitution of practically all territories occupied in 1967, that is, even Transjordan, East Jerusalem and the Golan Heights, in exchange for peace with the Palestinians and with Syria.
He did this in an interview which was printed by the daily newspaper Yedioth Ahronoth on Monday.
"We must reach an agreement with the Palestinians, which means that it will be necessary to return nearly all of the (occupied) territories, if not all of them," Olmert told the newspaper.
"We will keep a certain percentage of these territories, but we will have to cede a similar percentage (of Israeli territory) to the Palestinians, because there will be no peace if we don't do that," he added.
He admitted that the possible restitution would also include East Jerusalem.
"Whoever wants to be safe in Jerusalem and above all does not want tractors or bulldozers to run over his or her legs, like what happened to one of my best friends, will have to give up a part of Jerusalem," Olmert noted in reference to two attacks in the city in July, during which several people were killed and tens injured.
According to the prime minister, it will be necessary to find a "special solution for the Temple Mount, a sacred and historic place", which lies inside the Old City.
"Whoever will want to maintain Israeli sovereignty over the whole city will have to integrate 270,000 Arabs.
That won't work," he stressed further.
Leaving Golan Heights
Olmert also expressed his opinion in favour of the withdrawal of Israel from the Golan Heights, which according to him is an essential condition for entering into a peace agreement with Syria.
But that would also require certain effort from Damascus.
"I am not proposing to agree on peace with Syria solely on the basis of the withdrawal from the Golan Heights," he warned.
"The Syrians know well what they will have to give up in order to gain the Golan Heights.
They will have to give up their current relationship with Iran; they will have to give up their relationship to the (Shi-ite movement) Hezbollah; they will have to give up the ongoing support they provide to the terrorism of the (Shi-ite movement) Hamas, (the terrorist network) Al-Qaeda and the jihad (holy war) in Iraq," the prime minister specified.
Questions after accident: Are stewards in the bus illegal?
Law doesn't know them, walking in coach bus not permitted
In connection with the tragic accident of a bus of the company Student Agency near Padua, Italy, the question has arisen as to whether stewards and passengers can move around the bus while it is in motion.
"If we would like to strictly and formally uphold the law, the activities of the steward are in conflict with the Traffic Law," says speaker for the Ministry of Transportation Karel Hanzelka.
The accident, during which a twenty-two-year-old stewardess died last week, was evidently caused by the driver of the truck that crossed into the path of the bus.
Unluckily, at that moment, the girl was sitting next to the driver, in the least safe place in the vehicle, even though there are two more seats reserved for her.
However, the bus can crash or brake sharply even when the steward is handing out coffee or newspapers.
The question of whether the bus is equipped with standing room in accordance with its registration plays a role.
If this is not approved in the bus, the passengers must sit.
"We tried to find a solution to this with the ministry, and initially they did not permit the movement of the passengers.
Eventually they revoked this and we reached the conclusion that the passengers are allowed to go to the toilet if they have their own seat," he conveyed his position.
The law does not know the steward
"There is no straightforward legal interpretation of the steward - no legal enactments deal with this role.
However, nor do any legal enactments prohibit the transporters from providing services.
The Traffic Law only knows the term vehicle conductor; it does not define the rights and responsibilities of that person," speaker Hanzelka added less unambiguously.
"It depends on whether the bus has standing room permitted in its certification.
That's all there is to it," he says.
Buses are divided into the categories of city bus, where there is standing room and limited maximum speed, inter-city buses with standing room and a higher maximum speed permitted, and coach buses, with no standing room and the highest permitted speed and seats equipped with seat belts.
Like in an airplane, says expert
"During a smooth ride, there is not much threat of danger, the situation can be compared to the service in airplanes.
Even there it is not certain when turbulence will occur and the stewardess can hit her head."
"However, if the bus were to brake sharply, of course, the laws of physics are valid.
Just like in a city bus or a tram.
The transport provider must deal with the safety of the stewards through internal regulations," he says, and he also thinks that from the legal perspective, this issue is unresolved.
Student Agency is the only bus transport provider to offer the steward service.
It employs nearly two hundred of them.
Even after the accident, the head does not consider their job to be risky.
"But as soon as I gain the impression that the stewards' job is risky, I will discontinue them.
Passengers can get coffee and newspapers when boarding.
It would also save costs," he says.
Alexej Litvin, head of Asiana, which operates a fraction of the bus lines that SA does, explained the absence of stewards in his vehicles as due to safety interests.
"We don't have stewardesses, we've been against it from the very beginning.
Enormous tragedy occurred
A young stewardess from the Pilsen area, who had worked for the company for two years, died in an accident on the bus line to Naples.
A Slovenian tractor trailer truck likely left the emergency lane without signalling and blocked the path of the bus.
The bus driver tried to avoid it using a sharp manoeuvre, however, the front right part of the bus grazed it.
"It is not possible to reserve these seats in the coach buses, they are blocked."
The company plans to sue the driver of the truck.
The agency will not wait for the court verdict to compensate the girl's family, but it expects financial compensation from the guilty party.
Adaptation of the law?
Far away
An adaptation of the law, on which a thirty-member expert group from the Ministry of Transportation has been working for over a year, could bring about the specification of the movement of stewards on board the buses.
"But no concrete conclusion has been reached.
"The Ministry of Transportation does not consider the activity of the stewards to be something that would threaten the safety of the passengers in any essential way," concludes speaker Hanzelka, adding that the enforcement of safety in buses is under the jurisdiction of the police and the Labor Safety Office.
Duesseldorf Hopes Rest in Frankfurt
In a letter from the WestLB board of directors to the bank's employees, grand talk is not in short supply.
Combining units of the Duesseldorf institution with Frankfurt's Deka Bank, the notice made public on Monday claims, could `create a major capital-market institution of the Sparkassen Finanzgruppe.'
WestLB would contribute to the deal a `bloc of expertise' with sustained earning power, it says.
Generally, the letter suggests, this kind of jointer might provide the pivotal impulse for further concentration in the area of the German state banks, the Landesbanken.
That's what it sounds like when a board of directors wants to demonstrate being on top of things in difficult times.
The flagging WestLB is still exposed to tremendous pressure, after all.
Not just from the EU Commission, but also from the Federal Institute for Financial Services Supervision, which only recently warned the state government of North Rhine-Westphalia that there was an urgent need for a solution.
But talks of some type of jointer between Deka Bank, which savings bank clients are familiar with due to its investment funds, and WestLB have been making the rounds for some time now - even in Frankfurt.
Presenting the report on the first two quarters in late August, Deka Bank head Franz Waas said a fusion between the institute on Mainzer Landstrasse and a Landesbank, such as Hesse and Thuringia's Helaba or WestLB, made little sense to him.
But the administrative board of Deka, which is owned in equal parts by the Landesbanken and the savings banks associations, has asked the board of directors to commence talks with WestLB on joint business ventures.
The possible subject is the capital-market business, or parts of it.
Of course, as sources in the financial community point out, negotiations have only just begun.
It's not the first time that the name Deka Bank - with its staff of 3000 one of the more significant employers in the financial center of Frankfurt - crops up in the context of a savings banks consolidation.
In 2003, a merger of Deka Bank with Landesbank Rhineland-Palatinate and Helaba briefly seemed to be within the realm of possibility.
But in the end, the threesome didn't happen.
As soon as the plans became public, the Hessian state government spoke out against the participation of Helaba.
The two remaining institutions also proved unable to reach an agreement.
Instead, Landesbank Rhineland-Palatinate was bought by Stuttgart's Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg.
But deliberations on a jointer between Deka Bank and Landesbanken have continued to rear their heads.
Most recently, Guenther Merl, chairman of the board at Helaba, had quelled considerations of a merger with his institution.
This aside, there seems to be an increasing awareness that a consolidation of the various institutions in the public sector is imperative.
First up, now that the state elections in Bavaria are over, a jointer between BayernLB and the Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg may have become more likely.
For Helaba, that's not necessarily good news.
Should the pressure for more mergers increase, it will by degrees be running out of potential partners.
In the South, it would merely be a junior partner, although it has to date weathered the financial crisis much better than the institutions in Munich and Stuttgart.
A merger with WestLB, in turn, was squashed early this year by the Savings Bank Association of Hesse and Thuringia, which owns 85 percent of Helaba.
Remains only NordLB.
But such geostrategic considerations are only one side of the equation.
On the other stands the question in how far the institutions' different business models are compatible with another.
In June, Merl said that the key issue of finding an appropriate business model to ensure the sustainability of the Landesbanken had not yet been resolved by the German Savings Bank Association.
Ultimately, WestLB might also be split up, although, of course, that's not a solution favored at WestLB.
The letter from its board of directors, accordingly, voices the manifest desire for a `comprehensive solution.'
Quite how this is reconcilable with a jointer between individual units of WestLB and Deka Bank remains to be seen.
Second Weekend at the `Wiesn' Is Known as `Italian Weekend'
For Elena it's the first time, for Luca it's the third or fourth already.
But this time, he brought along his girlfriend Elena, and that changes everything, he says.
Behind them, next to a five-litre keg of Kaiser beer, stands a massively built bearded man who is proving to the approximately 200 Oktoberfest tourists just how deep the sounds are that his throat his capable of producing.
Elena first slaps Luca, then kisses him.
They came to Verona from Bologna.
From here, a parking lot for buses next to the railroad station Puorta Nuova, four buses will depart at 11:45 tonight, `destinazione Monaco, festa della birra.` Estimated time of arrival: 6:30 AM.
Three buses are reserved for Italians mainly, one is exclusively for Brazilians.
In one corner of the parking lot, the South Americans are already singing next to their flag. They were celebrating last night already.
And very loudly, too, says Marco Guarda - too loudly for Italians.
Marco, who wears a long coat with fake fur lining and glasses with broad silver earpieces, owns the buses.
They have been making trips to the Oktoberfest for five years now, three of them this year alone.
They travel at night, spend the day at the `Wiesn' and head back home again at 10:30 PM.
Staying over night would only generate unnecessary costs, Marco says.
The trip is 75 Euros, including a welcoming round of Kaiser beer, brewed according to the Bavarian Purity Law, health insurance, as well as a German-language guide - Marco enrolled in a language course in Frankfurt.
And with no further ado, the buses head out into the night, on the autostrada leading to `Brennero.'
There is no beer to be had yet.
Soon all is quiet in the bus, the travelers are asleep.
As they should be - they are going to need their strength.
They stop in Brixen and in Holzkirchen, where droves of other buses with Italian plates are making a final stop on the Autobahn 8, right before Munich.
When Marco's group finally arrives, as planned, at half past six in the morning at a parking lot near Theresienwiese, about 50 other buses from all over Europe are already there.
Elena, Luca and the others gather. Marco addresses them one last time to give them their marching orders.
First up: Put on the yellow caps.
On the left side, they say `Oktoberfest' in Gothic type, next to the Internet address of Marco's travel agency, "conoscersiviaggiando.it".
Second: `When the doors of the beer tent open, you have to run!' Marco shouts into the morning.
`Run!' Run and man the seats in the rear part of the tent.
`Not in the front, or else we will block the entry. And not all yellow hats at the same tables - spread out in the room!'
And don't forget to tip.
`Show the security people that we behave!
As soon as you abandon your seats, they're gone!'
Third: `Be back here tonight at 10:30 sharp!' Understood?
And off to the `Wiesn' they go.
One of them is marking the way by tying yellow caps to trees, signs and even to campaign posters of a political party that's popular in Bavaria.
They want to be prepared for the retreat.
It is the second weekend at the `Wiesn,' known as the `Italian Weekend.'
There are no exact figures; estimates say that around 50,000 make their way across the Alps to descent on the beer tents - ten percent of all visitors on this weekend are said to have arrived from Italy specifically for this purpose.
Munich's police are reinforced by seven policemen from South Tyrol, and Italian volunteers are lending support to the Bavarian Red Cross, according to whose statistics on nationals the Italians are leading the medical-attention field with about 200 cases, with Austrians (about 80 cases) and Britons (about 60 cases) coming in second and third.
No Sleep for Hypo Real Estate Creditors
As recently as last week, German Finance Minister Peer Steinbrueck stressed that the banking system of Germany was relatively stable.
It's a good thing that the politician used the term `relatively,' further interjecting that the German banking sector wouldn't be spared by the crisis.
Because that's what happened this weekend.
The real-estate bank Hypo Real Estate (HRE) from Munich, which is listed in the DAX stock index, is receiving credits in the billions from a consortium of German banks in order to be shielded against the market turbulences.
An individual close to the proceedings told Reuters on Monday that the credit line could be as high as 35 billion Euros total.
Hypo Real Estate was only required to pay interest on the sum it ends up using, they said.
The money was coming from private as well as public banks, they added.
The news comes in the wake of losses at subsidiary Depfa.
According to a news report, the government-funding bank had refinanced long-term projects it was financing on very short notice - which, due to the mistrust at the markets, is no longer a possibility.
In the first half-year of 2008, the bank's cash reserve had shrunk by 95 percent to 2.37 Euros, with the capital resource quota also slightly declining from 1.6 to 1.45 percent.
The ongoing earnings and net earnings from financial transactions had fallen to nil compared to the same period in the previous year, while earnings from write-ups on demands and specific bonds as well as from the liquidation of accruals from credit transactions had shrunk by more than 70 percent to 5 million Euros.
The decline in earnings remained at a moderate 16 percent only thanks to higher earnings through refunds from downstream accounting costs from restructuring the former Depfa Group, as well as from refunds of interest according to the Fiscal Code and from agency for group companies.
After going private in 1990, the former government-funding bank had initially incurred speculation losses through commercial real-esate credits, which were then outsourced to Aareal Bank.
Because earnings in classical government-funding were slim, Depfa had diversified internationally, increasingly engaging in infrastructure projects and in the funding of joint ventures between private investors and the government (Public-Private Partnership, PPP).
Now Hypo Real Estate has to induce write-offs according to the subsidiary's worth that will have a `significant, material effect' on the group's profit-and-loss statement, it said rather vaguely.
As a matter of fact, the dividend has been omitted.
It had already been reduced by two thirds in 2007.
Since the acquisition of Depfa, Hypo Real Estate has been a significant financer of government and infrastructure.
Because it does not have client deposits, it is more dependent on refinancing at the interbank market than other banks.
With the collapse two weeks ago of American investment bank Lehman Brothers, the extension of loans among banks has largely dried up again, because banks are hoarding their assets.
For part of Depfa's loan portfolio - approximately 50 billion Euros - Hypo Real Estate annually requires short-term capital for refinancing.
According to Hypo Real Estate, the credits meet the group's financing requirements for the foreseeable future, shielding the corporation from `the influence of the currently largely incapacitated international financial markets.'
Other sources say that, thanks to the credits, refinancing is covered until late 2009.
HRE chairman of the board Georg Funke said that, in the foreseeable future, the Hypo Real Estate Group would not have to draw upon the financial markets again, however.
The Deutsche Bundesbank and the Federal Institute for Financial Services Supervision (BaFin) are now considering the Hypo Real Estate Group's marketability to be secured.
On behalf of the bank's shareholders and creditors, it is to be hoped they are right.
But given the dynamics and the unpredictability of the crisis, things are likely to remain uncertain.
It's not even unthinkable that not all of the financing will be needed.
The opposite cannot be discounted either, however.
After the bank was reportedly close to insolvent late Sunday night, even a bailout, temporary as it is, is incapable of easing people's minds.
The price per share is dropping by 75 percent to 3.30 Euros.
Bond prices are holding up reasonably well, meanwhile.
Whereas senior debts are hardly moving, junior bonds are dropping more significantly.
This mainly applies to bonds of former subsidiary Wuerttemberg Hypo and, understandably, to repayment periods beyond 2009.
To date, Hypo Real Estate bonds seemed to be an alternative for speculative investment. After the financial crisis, as well as the bank's own homemade crisis caused by the acquisition of Depfa, however, their recoverability has to be considered dependent on the stability of the international financial system.
As long as central banks, governments and less stricken corporate banks are still willing to support the system, bond settlement deadlines can be met.
Alternatively, that which nobody dares to hope for yet right now comes to pass, and the financial crisis will be overcome within the next 15 months.
But considering that one report of partial nationalization is chasing the next, a probability bordering on certainty has now shrunk to a valid hope.
This may be causing some sleepless nights for long-term creditors in particular, as they ponder the question whether or not to abandon their exposure.
Short-term investors may at least use the line that has been drawn as an opportunity to draft a loss carry-forward for the capital gains compensation tax payments of the years to come.
Sylvana and the Secrets of the Bento Box
When Sylvana Hiltrop, 16 years old, is asked to introduce herself on her first day at Tachibana High School, the girls begin to giggle: The German girl is totally `kawaii'!
What this means?
Sylvana is familiar with the term from reading manga - in her new exchange log she tells about Japan.
`First day at school in Japan.
I was so excited.
The way to school alone gave me the jitters.
I live at the edge of Tokyo, towards Kawasaki, and the train ride to Tachibana High School is 40 minutes.
I had to find the way on my own, and luckily I didn't get lost.
The beginning of class isn't organized as strictly as back home in Lower Saxony.
Students begin trickling in at eight o'clock, until a brief conference with the teacher, the `home room,' starts at 8:40.
But before class began, it was my turn to introduce myself.
I'm not someone who likes to talk in front of other people, mind you, let alone a class of 40.
Because I didn't have a school uniform yet, I was dressed in one of my host mother's old skirts, as well as a blouse, blue stockings and black leather shoes.
In this attire, I stood before the desk and tried to pronounce everything correctly: 'Sayonara Wo she Sylvana...' - my name is Sylvana, I'm from Germany and my birthday is a week from now.
At that moment, I was very glad that I'd been learning the language for two years already.
The 31 girls in class were all whispering and giggling among themselves and waving at me, and I kept hearing the word `kawaii.'
I already knew it from my manga.
It's part of the essential vocabulary of Japanese girls and means `cute,' `sweet.'
Then I scurried to my seat.
The girl beside me was smiling rather brightly. She thought it was an honor that the exchange student should be seated next to her.
The rest of class was pretty uneventful, but when the bell rang, they were all practically crowding me.
They were talking all at once and giggled and bombarded me with one question after another, even though Japanese English is really hard to understand.
Then, during the break, everybody got out their bentos.
My host mother had prepared such a lunch box for me, too - it's something else than the bleak German lunch break sandwiches.
I had rice with herbs, little sausages, salad made from cucumber and algae, fruit and some kind of meat in a tofu coat.
Most of the time I don't have the first clue what I'm eating here in Japan.
The stuff looks weird and has a completely novel taste.
I can say this: It's all delicious.
Well, except for the salty plums in oil, that is. Yeuch!
At Japanese schools, the bentos aren't just lunch.
Sometimes it happens that a girl gives a homemade bento that she's fixed in a particularly fancy way to a boy, in the hope of getting to know him better during lunch break.
I read about that in my manga.
I'm looking forward to finding out whether that's happening here, too.
`Why Japan, of all places?,' my girlfriends asked when I told them that I wanted to go to school in Tokyo for a year.
And I always told them:
`Because it happens to fascinate me.'
After all, manga have been my favorite reading material for years.
And in order to have a better understanding of the comics and the culture in them, I eventually started to learn a little Japanese, as well.
So for me it's been a no-brainer that I would have to come here eventually.
Because I also have a penchant for tradition, manners and customs.
And those are considered very important here.
On the one hand, Japan is the land of the latest technologies and trends, but on the other hand it is strict, disciplined and traditional.
And because everything is so well-organized, I haven't felt lost yet, even though Tokyo is the biggest city I've ever seen.
Rats Have Feelings, Too
When in danger, a rat or roach will run away. Does it mean they experience fear, too?
Neuroscientist Joseph LeDoux is convinced that many animals have feelings, as well.
But if they act the same way we do, how could it be determined whether they also experience the same feelings?
The Internet magazine `Edge' has been running pieces by famous scientists for years.
In a series, SPIEGEL ONLINE presents a selection of responses to the question, `What do you consider to be true without being able to prove it?'
I believe that animals have feelings, as well as other modes of awareness, although neither I nor anybody else have been able to prove it to date. For that matter, we haven't even been able to prove that other people possess awareness.
But in that case, we can at least hope, since all human brains possess the same basic configuration.
As soon as we turn to other species and raise questions on feelings or awareness in general, however, we are entering difficult terrain, because the hardware is not compatible.
When a rat is in danger, it does the same thing as many other animals: It plays possum, runs away or attacks.
Humans behave similarly, which leads some scientists to conclude that the subjective experience is comparable.
But I don't believe that.
There are two aspects of our brain structure that make it difficult to project our subjective experience onto animals.
For one thing, those circuits almost always involved in human awareness include the lateral prefrontal cortex (due to the part it plays in short-term memory and executive and control functions).
This broad region is more advanced in humans than it is in other primates, and it seems to be entirely missing in other creatures.
So at least as far as these aspects of our awareness depending on the prefrontal cortex are concerned - among them the knowledge who we are and the ability to plan and to make decisions - there is reason to assume that humans are distinct even from other primates.
Another dramatic distinction is likely to consist in man's linguistic nature: Because such a vast part of what humans experience is tied to language, it's often said that their awareness depends on it.
In that case, animals could be excluded.
But even if awareness was not dependent on language, it would certainly be affected by it, meaning that animal awareness, however it may be defined, would likely be very different from most of our states of awareness.
That's why it is so difficult to determine what animal awareness may be like.
If you have something that, being internal and subjective, can be neither measured nor - due to its special hardware - analyzed according to our own experience, then its study comes with significant challenges.
My explanation has mostly been concerned with the realm of conscious awareness, but aside from that, there is another important aspect of awareness that is more easily accessible scientifically.
Animal awareness processes can be studied regardless of their content, and that's exactly what's happening in the study of the short-term memory of primates, particularly when it comes to the example of visualization.
But this approach, which was followed by Christof Koch and Francis Crick, is concerned with the neural correlates of awareness rather than the causal mechanisms, which may or may not be identical.
Interestingly, this approach also emphasizes the significance of the prefrontal cortex for the generation of the visualization.
What does this mean for feelings, now?
Let me remind you that an emotional system like that of fear is triggered in a brain that's aware of its own activity.
What we call `fear,' consequently, is the mental state we are in when the activity of the defense system located in the brain (or its effects, such as physical reactions) is using virtual memory.
From that perspective, feelings are closely tied to those regions of the cortex which are unique to primates, and humans in particular.
In conjunction with the linguistic nature, the result are delicate emotional shades, because through words and grammar we can differentiate between states and categorize them, in order to project them onto others as well.
In contrast to this, Antonio Damasio supposes, for instance, that feelings result from more primitive activities in the areas of the cortext and the brainstem concerned with bodily sensations. Jaak Pankseep says something similar, but his focus is more on the brainstem.
Since this network hadn't changed in the course of human evolution, they say, it might well be a cause of cross-species sensations.
In theory, I can't disagree with that, but I consider it improvable.
Pankseep argues that what seemed to be fear with rats and humans probably felt like it, as well, in both cases. But how can we determine whether rats and humans feel the same thing when they act in similar ways?
A roach's response to danger is flight. Does it experience fear?
As far as I'm concerned, a mere similarity of actions is not sufficient proof for an identity of experiences.
The neural comparison is helpful, granted: Rats and humans have similar brainstems, whereas roaches do not even have brains.
But is the brainstem responsible for emotions?
And even if it could be proved for humans - how would one want to prove it for rats?
I believe rats and other mammals - maybe even roaches (who knows?) - have emotions.
But I wouldn't know how to prove it.
And because their feelings are supposedly fundamentally different from ours (since human awareness is based on specific circuits and on language), I prefer to study emotional behavior rather than the emotional sensations of rats.
There is the promise of results on the neural level here, in any case, provided the same can be measured in rats and humans.
Just like I don't study language and awareness in rats, neither do I study their emotions, given that I don't even know if they exist.
One may consider that to be short-sighted, but I prefer to make progress, rather than to keep hitting a wall.
I just happen to be a practical emotionalist.
UEFA President Platini: Reprieve for Poland and Ukraine
Ukrainian Vice Prime Minister Ivan Vasyunik said that preparations would soon be transferred to the direct responsibility of the President and the Prime Minister.
`The government considers UEFA's decision a display of trust in Ukraine and its ability to host the Eurocup together with Poland,' Vasyunik said.
`This is no amnesty for our country.
Work has only just begun, and there is much still to be done in both countries.'
The two hosts are behind on the schedule for the construction or reconstruction of stadiums, roads, hotels and airports.
Even a reduction of the number of Euro stadiums from eight to six is possible.
`We cannot waste any more time.
We have to proceed at great speed now,' said Grigoriy Surkis, president of the Ukrainian soccer association.
`UEFA will be keeping an eye on us constantly.'
An even more radical measure was taken in Poland.
After numerous scandals, the leadership of the Polish association PZPN was suspended by the National Olympic Committee and replaced with independent administrator Robert Zawlocki.
The commission had been assembled at the request of Minister of Sport Miroslav Drzeviecki.
There was `the serious danger that the PZPN is not able to act according to the rules,' Drzeviecki told Polish news agency PAP.
`We have reassured UEFA President Michel Platini in a letter that preparations for the Euro 2012 will not suffer because of this.'
In the past season alone, several major-league teams had been convicted for manipulation and sentenced to a forced relegation. Ultimately, even the beginning of the season had to be postponed on short notice.
Indignant Dennis Quaid Strikes Back
She wanted to promote a new film, talked about personal matters in an interview - and now she's in trouble with her ex: Hollywood star Meg Ryan called her former husband Dennis Quaid an adulterer.
The latter is fuming at her - and strikes back.
Belated marital war between former spouses Meg Ryan and Dennis Quaid: Seven years after divorcing, the two Hollywood actors are now engaged in an unsightly - and public - argument.
In an interview with U.S. magazine `InStyle' last week, Meg Ryan had for the first time addressed the reasons for the failure of the marriage: `Dennis was cheating on me for a long time, and that was very painful.'
She had only learned about the extent of his unfaithfulness after the divorce, she said.
The occasion for her candor was Ryan's promotion of her new film `The Women' - which tells the story of an adultery.
Dennis Quaid's reaction to being portrayed as a cheating husband was unequivocal: It was `outrageous,' the 54-year-old told the `New York Daily News,' that `Meg is repeatedly rehashing and revising the history of our relationship.'
It was also `regrettable' that their common 16-year-old son Jack was again `publicly reminded of the pain and the upheavals a divorce brings for any child,' he said.
While Ryan has been living on her own since the divorce, Quaid remarried and recently became the father of twins.
He concluded his comments with a sideswipe. `My life has moved on, at any rate.
I consider myself lucky to have a wonderful family that is doing well.'
Flight and Hotel Rates Drop
In the first half-year of 2008, flights and rooms in Europe were cheaper than in the previous year.
In Germany, flight rates even dropped by as much as 50 percent, a current survey says.
Rates for flights and hotel rooms have dropped again, according to a survey by travel and financial services provider American Express.
Analyzing its booking data from the first half-year of 2008, the company found that, after an increase of rates in the first quarter, there was a significant drop in the second quarter.
Following years of increasing rates in the hotel market, rooms have already become cheaper in many places.
From January to March, rates in 41 out of 48 analyzed European cities were still increasing by an average 6.9 percent compared to 2007.
But from April to June, rates had already dropped by 3.6 percent versus the previous year.
The trend was most visible in Paris and Rome, the survey says, where travelers had to pay between 30 and 37 percent less than a year ago.
American Express considers the weak dollar to be the reason for this, as it results in a `decreasing desire for travel among American tourists.'
Financial centers like Frankfurt and London were hit harder by the dropping hotel rates than industry locations such as Hannover, Cologne or Stavanger, it further says.
With an increase of 26.3 percent, hotel rates in the Norwegian city are holding the record for Europe, even.
Flight rates were also still trending up in the first quarter.
Due to the increasing cost of kerosene, economy-class travelers had to pay 7.1 percent more on average than in 2007, while rates for more fuel-intensive long-range flights even went up by as much as 29.2 percent.
From April to June, economy-class flight rates dropped by an average 12.5 percent versus the preceding quarter, whereas business- and first-class price changes were much less noticeable.
In Germany, rates dropped even more sharply than in other European countries.
From January to March, rates had increased by 11.9 percent, in the second quarter they dropped by 23.6 percent.
The rates of domestic German flights were halved even, a survey says.
On the one hand, the sudden drop in rates was the result of the slowing economic growth, the company says.
Demand was receding in many segments of the air-travel market, it says.
On the other hand, there was an increase in competitive pressure through the Open Skies Agreement, which deregulates air travel between the U.S. and Europe.
Among the signs of increasing tension were the cancelation of unprofitable routes at airlines, it says, as well as the high number of airlines filing for bankruptcy in the first half-year of 2008 - in Europe alone, it was 24 airlines, it says.
Hamburg SV 1, Borussia Moenchengladbach 0
With one goal and simple measures, Hamburg SV conquers the top of the chart.
At Borussia, Luhukay remains unable to find a working team.
By Kristoffer Klein. Enlarge. Crash landing for German international Marko Marin.
The Gladbach player joined the game late and missed, lifting the ball to the crossbar.
His message was concisely phrased and left his throat convincingly.
He simply knew that he was right.
`We need the second goal,' Hermann Rieger hissed in the hallway at Hamburg Arena.
Not a lot was going on in the `catacombs.' The half-time break was over and most people had returned to their seats.
Rieger was HSV's physiotherapist for nearly three decades. He is held in higher esteem than some other lapsed actors.
And thus, his plea was heard by the powers that be.
Assistant Coach Cornelius Jol nodded and raised his thumb in agreement.
Cornelius is the brother of Hamburg's Coach-in-Chief, Martin Jol.
The latter's order is likely to have been a similar one: Get me goal number two!
It was never executed.
`Not everything was fun to look at today,' Marcell Jansen later admitted.
Bastian Reinhardt would also have `wished' for things to be `more relaxed.'
Hamburg has to thank Mladen Petric for scoring the 1-0 (1-0) with his header (11th); and the fact that a very weak Gladbach team proved unable to hit the weak Hamburg team where it hurts.
`It was a dirty victory,' Martin Jol summed things up.
This Monday, Hamburg SV turns 121 years old.
Spectators began celebrating on Saturday evening - themselves, the blue sky above the Arena and the instant chart on the video screen that showed their club as top of the class.
It's going to be a birthday without a real party.
`We know where to file this one,' said Marcell Jansen.
He senses that the chart's intermediate report says more about the unpredictability of the Liga than about the dominance of his HSV.
The team and its belatedly signed-on new members - Brazilians Neves and Silva, goal-getter Petric, as well as Jansen, who was wooed away from FC Bayern - are slowly finding their form, but they are not shining brightly yet.
`We need more style and more dribbling,' Jol demanded.
After the Voting Failure
Fear is making the rounds on Wall Street.
Initial reports of the bailout failure at one point resulted in the Dow Jones dropping by 700 points.
It was the biggest one-day point-drop in its history.
Later, the Dow Jones somewhat recuperated again.
Around 8:30 PM the world's most significant market indicator listed with 10,579 points, with a minus of more than five percent.
The technology stock exchange Nasdaq was at 1548 points, with a minus of more than seven percent.
In the Dow, the biggest losses were suffered by American Express at this stage, which dropped by 14 percent, as well as by the Bank of America, which lost around twelve percent.
There were no increases for any shares.
Shares of the bank Goldman Sachs declined by approximately ten percent.
Large-scale investor Warren Buffet had bought into the company only a few days ago.
The bailout included the provision of funds for the acquisition of so-called bad mortgage certificates.
The sum is not to be disbursed at one go, however, but incrementally.
In turn, the United States was to obtain stock purchase warrants from the finance companies that could be discharged once share prices were appropriate, in order to reduce the burden on the National Treasury.
Stock Markets in Europe and the U.S. in Downward Spiral
The billion-dollar aids for banks in Europe and in the U.S. are not assuaging investors' doubts.
Shares of the German major bank Hypo Real Estate are declining and dragging down the DAX.
The U.S. index Dow Jones is declining despite the United States' planned bailout of the financial market.
Spectacular share losses at Hypo Real Estate and Commerzbank have plunged the German Stock Index (DAX) into a deep minus.
Despite the bailout by the German federal government and by private banks, shares of the Munich-based real-estate financer declined by three fourths at one point, while Commerzbank lost more than 20 percent.
The DAX dropped significantly below the important psychological 6,000-point marker and listed at 5,839 points, with a minus of 3.7 percent.
Stock markets were brought to their knees all over the world.
In New York, Wall Street opened with significant losses.
Investors feared that the U.S. government's 700-billion-dollar bailout might not suffice to kickstart the financial markets.
The Dow lost 334 points or 3.3 percent in the first hour of trade, dropping to 10,809.25 points.
The U.S. House of Representatives wanted to vote on the bailout plan. The vote in the Senate could follow on October 1st.
The remaining European banks also knew but one direction: In London, the FTSE index initially dropped by 3.2 percent, in Paris the CAC 40 lost 2.9 percent.
In Asia, the leading Japanese index Nikkei dropped by 1.26 percent to 11,743.61 points after initial gains.
In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng Index declined by 2.1 percent to 18,286.90 points.
In India, the leading index Sensex lost 506.43 points or 3.9 percent and closed at 12,595.75 points.
In the MDAX, Arcandor shares dropped after the announcement of a capital increase.
Private bank Sal. Oppenheim applied for the 23 million new shares.
The trade and tourism corporation also announced that its shares in Thomas Cook would not be sold.
Dark Matter Affects Flight of Space Probes
For years, a mysterious phenomenon has had researchers stumped: Dark matter is affecting the speed of space probes during so-called swing-by maneuvers.
Experts fear that Albert Einstein's general theory of relativity may not be entirely correct.
For almost 18 years, the probe `Ulysses' has been flying through space.
Due to freezing fuel lines, it is now threatening to shut down.
Among scientists, a mysterious phenomenon has been causing confusion for years - the Swing-By Anomaly.
The swing-by is a flight maneuver during which space probes gain additional acceleration in the gravitational field of a celestial body, such as Earth.
It enables the probes to save a lot of fuel.
The European-American research probe Cassini-Huygens made use of this physical trick, as did the solar probe Ulysses.
But what researches have been wondering about for years is this: The objects in flight are not behaving precisely in the way we have come to expect according to the venerable law of gravitation.
Rather, there are irregularities in their speed.
The probes unexpectedly become faster or slower.
To date, physicists have been unable to explain this effect.
They have dubbed it the Swing-By Anomaly.
Some experts fear that even Albert Einstein's general theory of relativity, which describes the gravitational pull of matter through a curvature of space, may not be entirely correct.
The American physicist Stephen Adler at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton still firmly believes that Einstein did not err, and is trying to explain the Swing-By Anomaly by way of the so-called dark matter that astronomers discovered in the universe.
`It could be dark matter existing very close to Earth that may be responsible for the anomaly,' he writes.
Space researchers have only been aware of the existence of dark matter for about ten years.
Evidently, it emits a gravitational force whose effect on other celestial bodies is measurable.
The dark matter itself is completely invisible, however, meaning that it neither sends nor emits any electromagnetic radiation whatsoever, such as, consequently, visible light in particular.
According to the scientists' calculations, dark matter constitutes as much as one fifth of all matter in the universe.
Abducted Tourists in Egypt Released
After being held hostage by their captors for ten days, the tourists abducted in Egypt have evidently been released, as confirmed by the Italian Foreign Minister.
The abductors from Sudan had demanded a ransom of several million Euros.
In a shoot-out preceding the rescue, six of their captors were reportedly killed.
In the south of Egypt, five Germans have been abducted.
Negotiations concerning a ransom are reportedly already underway.
Time and again, Germans end up in the crosshairs of kidnappers.
`Welt Online' reports the most notable cases.
The European tourists abducted in the Sahara have apparently been freed.
Reports by Egyptian state television, the Arabian TV channel al-Arabiya and Italian media are in accordance on that.
According to Italian TV channel Sky TG 24, Italian Foreign Minister Franco Frattini confirmed the release: `Our fellow citizens and the other hostages have been freed.
Right now we are checking their health,' Frattini said.
The five Germans, five Italians, one Romanian woman and their eight Egyptian companions were safe and sound, Egyptian state television reported.
The 19 participants of a desert expedition were already on their way to Cairo, it said.
The circumstances of the shoot-out preceding the release remain unclear: According to an Egyptian security agent, the captors were ready to end the abduction when the Sudanese army suddenly killed six of the abductors.
`The problem had been solved.
They had agreed to a ransom,' the agent said.
It had been `only a matter of receiving the hostages,' when suddenly `this surprise' happened.
On Sunday, Sudanese soldiers had shot dead six of the abductors and taken two as prisoners in the border region between Sudan, Chad and Egypt.
The abductors had demanded a ransom of six million Euros from Germany; the money was to be delivered by the German wife of one of the hostages.
Citing a German negotiator, the daily newspaper `El Masri El Jom' reported that the release was being delayed because the kidnappers were fearing for their safety.
According to the report, the abductors intended to release the female hostages once the ransom had been paid.
The men were to be held captive until the abductors would have secured an escape route.
The German embassy in Cairo declined to comment on the report.
Stepfather abuse "led to suicide"
Years of abuse by her stepfather led a woman to kill herself, a court has been told.
Michael Trerise, 57, of Stithians, Cornwall, was jailed for six years after he admitted eight counts of indecent assault.
Truro Crown Court heard he regularly tied up his step-daughter Stephanie Randle, when she was aged between five and seven.
Trerise wrote in a confession note: "I feel responsible for her death."
The court heard that Ms Randle killed herself at her home in Mutley, Plymouth, on 1 April 2007, aged 34.
When she was a child living in Coventry, Trerise had tied her up and blindfolded her before performing sexual acts, while her mother was out working at a pub.
Trerise and his wife divorced in the 1980s, and he returned to live in Cornwall.
His step-daughter went to Plymouth.
But the court heard that Ms Randle, who spent much of her time volunteering for the National Trust, was haunted by the abuse which had been inflicted on her twice-weekly.
By 2006, prosecutor Ramsey Quaife told the court, friends said Ms Randle, who had been a keen surfer and cyclist, was "emotionally dead", and had "given up on life".
In April 2007 her real father, Terrance Randle, found her dead at her flat in Plymouth.
She is thought to have killed herself through suffocation using a plastic bag.
Mr Randle confronted his daughter's step-father, who wrote a confession letter which ended: "I used to tie her up and blindfold her.
"I didn't sexually assault her.
I feel responsible for her death."
Judge Christopher Elwen told Trerise: "You are an extremely strange fetishist, and for your victim it must have been terrifying, especially when she was only seven.
"This unpleasant saga ends with the victim taking her own life.
Even more stark, is the fact that had she not done so, it's very doubtful that matters would have ended up in court."
He added: "I note the effect Stephanie's father and mother describe your crime having on their daughter over the years.
"She was plainly otherwise likely to have been a promising, successful and happy young woman."
Lost data official to be charged
The Cabinet Office official who left top-secret documents on a train in June is to be charged under the Official Secrets Act, the BBC has learned.
The man was on secondment from the Ministry of Defence when he left two highly classified documents on a train to Waterloo.
The documents were passed to the BBC before being handed over to the police.
It is the least sensitive charge under the act and there is no suggestion of criminal intent.
BBC defence correspondent Frank Gardner said the move would have come as a surprise to many in Whitehall.
"They will have thought this was being dealt with internally at the MoD and Cabinet Office," he said.
The employee, who cannot be named, is being charged under section 8.1 of the act, the clause which deals with safeguarding information.
The Crown Prosecution Service recommended the official should be charged by the Metropolitan Police due to the highly sensitive nature of his work on the Joint Intelligence Committee.
The documents he misplaced contained classified assessments about al-Qaeda and the capabilities of Iraq's security forces.
He was informed of the decision on Monday morning and was moved from his home to an undisclosed location.
Building societies face B&B bill
The interest on that loan will be paid by all firms that take savers' money, including the 59 building societies.
The director general of the Building Societies Association (BSA) Adrian Coles said it was "galling" that societies and their members had to pay.
But the interest which will accrue in the meantime will be charged each year to the 700 financial companies which take deposits.
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme confirmed to the BBC that the 59 building societies would be included in that number.
It is galling that those institutions that behaved prudently ... are now being called upon to pay some of the bills of those institutions that were far less prudent
Adrian Coles, BSA
It said each firm had to pay in proportion to the deposits it held, and that the societies between them had to pay about 18% of the cost.
Adrian Coles, director general of the building societies' trade association, told the BBC he believes that is unfair.
"It is galling that those institutions that behaved prudently in the housing market upswing are now being called upon to pay some of the bills of those institutions that were far less prudent."
According to the BSA, no society has failed since its records began in 1945.
"We will need to examine all the aspects of this over the next few weeks to see what options there are to protect building societies and their members from what could be a significant bill," added Mr Cole.
The interest due in 2009 cover seven months from the end of September this year to the end of March.
In 2010 a full year's interest will be due and that could be almost twice as much.
Since building societies are mutual organisations with no shareholders, their members will end up paying the bill either through higher charges or lower interest rates on saving accounts.
Milk to go up five pence a litre
People in Jersey are facing having to pay more for their milk.
Jersey Dairy has announced that it will increase the wholesale price of its milk by an extra five pence a litre from Monday.
It is the second price increase this year, following a two pence rise in February, and comes after research carried out by a consultancy company.
Retailers are to decide for themselves if they want pass on the price increases to their customers.
Before the February increase, the wholesale price of Jersey milk last changed in 2002.
Bangladesh ex-PM is denied bail
A Bangladesh court has rejected a bail plea of former PM Sheikh Hasina, meaning that she could be arrested when she returns to the country.
Her lawyers said the court refused to grant her bail over charges of extorting 50 million taka ($729,700) from a businessman when she was PM.
The case is one of several corruption charges pending against her.
Sheikh Hasina's long-time political rival, Khaleda Zia, was released on bail earlier this month.
Sheikh Hasina is due to return to Bangladesh over the next few weeks but her party, the Awami League, has demanded that the country's military-backed caretaker government should first give her full freedom.
Correspondents say that while she was given parole to go abroad for medical treatment, it is not clear under the terms of her release whether she will be able to remain at liberty when she returns to Bangladesh.
Her lawyers say that she will now appeal in the Supreme Court against the High Court order.
"The High Court rejected Sheikh Hasina's bail petition saying that she doesn't have to get bail as she's already undergoing treatment abroad on parole," her barrister Rafique-ul Huq said.
"We'll file an appeal against the High Court order."
Her lawyers argued that she needed bail to come back to the country from abroad to prepare for elections in December.
Sheikh Hasina is expected to return home after 17 October, a senior Awami League party leader said on Sunday.
She was detained last year after the army-backed interim government assumed power, but was released from prison in June, to go abroad for medical treatment.
Both Sheikh Hasina and Khaleda Zia deny all charges against them.
Fears for Afghan anti-polio drive
Almost 200,000 children in Afghanistan missed out on a recent polio immunisation drive because of violence linked to the Taleban, the UN says.
The UN carried out a vaccination programme in six provinces last week.
But it says it could not reach children in parts of Helmand and Kandahar in the south for security reasons.
A UN spokesman said this was despite pledges from the Taleban that they would not attack or obstruct thousands of staff carrying out the vaccinations.
BSkyB loses ITV legal challenge
BSkyB has lost its legal challenge to the Competition Commission's decision forcing the firm to reduce its stake in rival broadcaster ITV.
BSkyB has been told by the Competition Appeal Tribunal to cut its holding in ITV from 17.9% to below 7.5%.
Previously, the commission said that BSkyB's stake thwarted competition and allowed it unfair influence over ITV.
BSkyB bought the stake in 2006 in a deal which effectively blocked NTL, now renamed Virgin Media, from buying ITV.
In April 2007, the Office of Fair Trading reported that BSkyB's acquisition of its stake in ITV shed doubt on the independence of ITV, prompting the Competition Commission to launch a probe.
Virgin boss Sir Richard Branson, consumer groups and the regulator Ofcom all opposed the purchase.
BSkyB argued that forcing it to reduce its ITV stake was unreasonable and a disproportionate remedy - particularly as BSkyB had said it would surrender its voting rights.
New probe into US attorney affair
The US attorney general has appointed a special prosecutor to look into the firing of nine US attorneys in 2006.
The move came as a report into the affair by the inspector general of the justice department criticised the actions of administration officials.
The report was critical of White House officials, lawmakers and the former Attorney General Alberto Gonzales.
The investigation was prompted by fears that the attorneys had been removed for political reasons.
Special Prosecutor Nora Dannehy will now investigate whether officials questioned during the probe lied to investigators in an attempt to obstruct justice.
"Serious allegations involving potential criminal conduct have not been fully investigated or resolved," Inspector General Glenn Fine said in his report.
The appointment of a special prosecutor with the power to force witnesses to testify was one of his key recommendations.
The row began when nine US attorneys were removed from their positions by the US Department of Justice in December 2006.
At the time, the department said that the attorneys had been fired for poor performance.
But it later emerged that the fired attorneys had not been rated any more poorly than many of their colleagues, leading many observers to conclude that the sackings had been politically-motivated.
Some of the attorneys had been involved in the prosecution of high-profile Republican members of Congress, while others had refused to investigate allegations of voter fraud against Democrats.
US attorneys investigate and prosecute court cases for the government.
They can be dismissed at any time, but may not be removed for political reasons.
The then head of the justice department, Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, came under fire for the sackings, and eventually resigned his position.
A number of other justice department officials also resigned.
The inspector general's report was highly critical of Mr Gonzales's role in the affair, saying he bore "primary responsibility" for the sackings, that he "abdicated" his leadership role and was "remarkably unengaged" in the process.
Other officials, including former senior Bush aide Karl Rove, were criticised for failing to co-operate with the investigation.
Meat Loaf's epic to be honoured
Rock star Meat Loaf is to be honoured at the Q Awards for his epic anthem Bat Out Of Hell.
The singer, who will collect his special golden award at next week's ceremony in London, said he was "honoured" to gain recognition.
The song, which lasts nine minutes and fifty seconds, was the title track to Meat Loaf's hit 1977 album.
Coldplay are leading the nominations for this year's awards, making the shortlists of four categories.
Paul Rees, Q magazine's editor-in-chief, said: "There are some songs that transcend such things as time and genre, and Bat Out Of Hell is assuredly one of them."
The song, penned by Jim Steinman, required a huge vocal which was delivered by Meat Loaf.
It opened with an instrumental section which lasted almost two minutes.
The song was released as a single in the UK in 1979 and peaked at number 15.
But Meat Loaf's Bat Out Of Hell album spent around nine years in the chart and went on to sell more than 40 million copies worldwide.
Meat Loaf - real name Marvin Lee Aday - has suffered health problems in recent years, including surgery for an irregular heartbeat in 2003 after collapsing on stage.
In 2007, acute laryngitis forced him to cancel concerts.
It later emerged that he had a cyst on his vocal chord.
Obscure City Street, Often Forgotten and Perhaps Soon for Sale
New York City has thousands of avenues, boulevards, streets and other byways, some famous, others merely utilitarian.
But even many veteran taxi drivers and longtime local residents find it difficult to give the location of Extra Place, mostly because they have never heard of it.
The tiny street is in the East Village and runs north from First Street - without making it to Second Street - between the Bowery and Second Avenue.
About 30 feet wide and 120 feet long, it resembles a dusty alleyway more than an active thoroughfare.
There are no street signs.
It is virtually impossible to see on a standard atlas.
The street does, however, have admirers.
For instance, there is Avalon Bay, the developer of recently constructed luxury buildings on First Street.
It wants to repave Extra Place and create a cleaner passageway to the shops and boutiques that are expected to open in the new buildings.
Other admirers include longtime neighbors who said they were charmed by the truncated lane simply because it was one of the last remnants of the block's pregentrified past.
But the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development, which has control of the street, has no interest in holding on to it.
At a meeting of the neighborhood community board's land use committee this month, representatives of the city agency and Avalon Bay outlined a proposal for the developer to buy the street.
But the committee prefers that the street remain in the city's hands, and it asked for a new plan to be submitted next month, said Susan Stetzer, the district manager of Community Board 3.
"There's very little city-owned space left, and we would like the city to continue to own Extra Place," she said.
"There could be proposals to fix it up and manage it, which could be done by Avalon, but we also want to guarantee public access."
Avalon Bay announced several months ago that it wanted to repave the little street and install seats, including some to be used by a cafe to which the developer expects to lease space.
The idea that Avalon Bay might buy the street was first made public at this month's meeting.
Michele de Milly, a spokeswoman for Avalon Bay, said that though the company wanted to use the street, it did not necessarily want to own it.
"Avalon Bay's principal concern is refurbishing this derelict alleyway and turning it into a public amenity," she said, adding that the city had suggested the sale.
Seth Donlin, a spokesman for Housing Preservation, said it was indeed the city's desire to sell the street and noted that the agency's mission was to develop property rather than manage it.
Compared with its more colorful neighbor, the Bowery, Extra Place has left a light historical footprint.
Some believe it got its name in 1802, when a large farm owned by Philip Minthorne was split up among several of his children and the narrow strip of land was unclaimed.
The back door of CBGB, the punk rock monument that closed in 2006, opened onto Extra Place, and the street is perhaps best known as the setting for the cover photograph of the Ramones' album "Rocket to Russia."
"The ground was magnificent," said Danny Fields, the manager of the Ramones, who took the photograph in November 1976.
"It was filled with junk, shreds of clothes and pieces of barrels, posters, leaves, ropes."
Some residents, including bloggers who write about the gentrification of the East Village, have opposed the idea of selling Extra Place, arguing that the piece of public property, modest as it is, should remain public.
Others have lauded Extra Place as a rarity - a virtually unchanged sliver of the city that ought to be left alone.
Jeremiah Moss, who runs a blog called Jeremiah's Vanishing New York (subtitled, "The Book of Lamentations: A Bitterly Nostalgic Look at a City in the Process of Going Extinct"), posted part of a Talk of the Town story about Extra Place that appeared in The New Yorker in 1952.
The author, Brendan Gill, wrote: "Extra Place is a narrow little dead-end street, dark even by day and marked off by rusty iron warehouse doors and shuttered windows, with week-old newspapers blowing along the gutters."
With a few exceptions, the street looked much the same on a recent evening.
A rat skittered across the back of the street near a door that used to lead into CBGB, which is now the site of an upscale clothing store.
Graffiti was on walls and an empty 22-ounce beer bottle lay near a fresh batch of discarded newspapers.
A few passersby said that they rarely thought about Extra Place but suggested that it could use some sprucing up.
Mr. Fields, for his part, said he thought that some people were underestimating the appeal of the street in its current state.
"The best years of my life," he said, "were in places that were dark, damp and disgusting."
The Bilingual Debate: English Immersion
In this installment of Education Watch, Bruce Fuller and Lance T. Izumi discuss the candidates' positions on bilingual education.
Lance T. Izumi, a senior fellow in California studies and the senior director of education studies at the Pacific Research Institute for Public Policy, is the co-author of the book "Not as Good as You Think: Why the Middle Class Needs School Choice."
Making effective appeals to Hispanic voters is a tricky business.
Barack Obama's education proposals are a case in point.
Mr. Obama's campaign notes that, "African-American and Latino students are significantly less likely to graduate than white students," which is true.
To combat such achievement gaps, Mr. Obama's education plan specifically advocates, among other things, "transitional bilingual education" for English-learners.
Yet, the question for Mr. Obama is whether his commitment to bilingual education, which emphasizes classroom instruction in languages other than English, overrides his interest in closing achievement gaps.
Take, for example, Sixth Street Prep, a charter elementary school in eastern Los Angeles County.
The school's students are overwhelmingly Hispanic and low income.
More than a third of the students, many of whom are recent arrivals, are learning English.
Yet, among fourth graders, an astounding 100 percent of the students tested at the proficient level on the 2008 state math exam.
A nearly equally amazing 93 percent of fourth graders tested proficient on the state English-language-arts exam.
This incredible success was achieved using a different ingredient than the one favored by Mr. Obama.
Sixth Street emphasizes review and practice, constant assessment of skills and a no-excuses attitude.
Furthermore, and here's where Mr. Obama should take note, according to Linda Mikels, Sixth Street's principal, the school's instructional approach for English learners is "full immersion."
English immersion emphasizes the near-exclusive use of English in content instruction.
Ms. Mikels, who opposes bilingual education, told me, "we've had tremendous success with having a student who is brand new from Mexico and you would walk into a classroom 12 months later and you wouldn't be able to pick out which one he was."
"It's working," she observed, "it's working for us."
Would Mr. Obama hold up a school like Sixth Street Prep as one model for replication by other schools with large Hispanic and English-learner populations?
The school's achievement results should make the answer to that question a no-brainer, but the education politics within his own party (the National Education Associations has been a long-time supporter of bilingual education) and his own consistent support for bilingual education obscure predicting Mr. Obama's response.
While he agrees that immigrants should learn English, Mr. Obama recently trivialized the issue when he said that people should stop worrying about "English-only" legislation.
Instead, he said, "you need to make sure your child can speak Spanish."
If Mr. Obama truly wishes to close achievement gaps, he should carefully consider education models that work rather than scorn or trivialize them.
Oil Falls Sharply on Renewed Economic Fears
Oil prices dropped sharply on Monday because of concerns that even the American bailout plan for the financial markets may fail to revive the economy.
Crude oil futures fell as much as 7 percent to $99.80 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange in morning trading.
Prices have lost more than $20 a barrel since last Monday.
In the last two weeks, commodity markets have been shaken by the financial turmoil on Wall Street, and a pair of powerful hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico.
After reaching a high of $145.29 a barrel in July, prices had fallen to nearly $90 a barrel earlier this month, before once again jumping back up on the back of tremendous uncertainty in the financial markets.
Anxiety gripped investors once again on Monday even after Congressional leaders said they had reached an agreement over the weekend about the bailout plan, the largest in history.
The news was overshadowed by fresh concerns that the financial crisis was far from over.
In the latest episode of the unfolding meltdown, Citigroup will buy the banking operations of the Wachovia Corporation, the government said Monday.
Meanwhile, the Belgian, Dutch and Luxembourg governments partially nationalized the European financial conglomerate Fortis.
Analysts at Barclays Capital said the frantic weekend negotiations that led to the bailout agreement "appear to have failed to revive market sentiment."
As the economic situation deteriorates, the demand for commodities, including oil, is expected to slow down.
"The outlook for global equity, interest rate and exchange rate markets has become increasingly uncertain," analysts at Deutsche Bank wrote in a note to investors.
"We believe commodities will be unable to escape the contagion.
From a commodity perspective our most pressing concern is to what extent the US virus spreads globally and specifically to China."
The bank's analysts pared down their expectations for next year as oil consumption drops because of slowing economic growth, reducing their oil and gas price forecasts by about 20 percent for 2009.
Second-Quarter Spree Sets Team Record
After spending more time in a Jets uniform the last eight-plus seasons than anyone, defensive end Shaun Ellis thought he had seen it all.
Then he watched the second quarter unfold Sunday, when the Jets transformed a scoreless game into a blowout.
"Never seen anything quite like that," Ellis said.
The second quarter began after the Jets and the Arizona Cardinals had matched the gloomy clouds hanging overhead with sloppy play.
Then quarterback Brett Favre found Laveranues Coles for a 12-yard touchdown strike, providing the perfect harbinger for an afternoon when their evolving connection took a giant leap forward.
Favre found Coles for two more touchdowns in the quarter, including one when a cornerback fell down and another with 10 seconds left in the half.
"I didn't go out of my way," Favre said of all the passes that went to Coles.
"He's a hell of a player.
Our communication has been great, regardless of what people may think."
While Favre and Coles played catch, the defense battered Cardinals quarterback Kurt Warner.
Cornerback Darrelle Revis intercepted an errant throw and returned it 32 yards for a touchdown.
Safety Eric Smith tipped another pass and intercepted it.
Linebacker David Bowens forced a fumble by Warner.
The last turnover, the fumble forced by Bowens, might have been the most egregious.
The Cardinals had taken over on that possession with 10 seconds left, and after the Jets recovered the ball, Jay Feely kicked a 20-yard field goal for a 34-0 lead.
It was the most the Jets had ever scored in a quarter.
Asked to describe the craziness of it, Jets Coach Eric Mangini said, "The second quarter or the third quarter?"
When he was told both - the Jets allowed 21 unanswered points in the third quarter - Mangini said: "I can tell you I enjoyed the second quarter a lot more than I did the third quarter.
There were a lot of points scored in a short amount of time."
Rested Gebrselassie Tops His World Record
Haile Gebrselassie of Ethiopia again showed why many consider him the greatest distance runner ever, breaking his own world record in the marathon in Berlin on Sunday and becoming the first person to run the 26.2-mile race under 2 hours 4 minutes.
With a victory on the accommodatingly flat course in 2:03:59, Gebrselassie shattered by 27 seconds his previous mark of 2:04:26, run last year in Berlin.
At 35, Gebrselassie set the 26th world record of a career of such stunning breadth that he has produced a world championship or world record at every distance from the metric mile to the marathon.
Last month, Gebrselassie skipped the Olympic marathon in Beijing, fearing - perhaps too alarmingly, in retrospect - that the air pollution would exacerbate his problems with asthma.
Instead, he signed to run in Berlin.
In near perfect conditions - sunny and 48 degrees at the start, 55 degrees at the finish - Gebrselassie won Sunday while averaging a blistering 4 minutes 43 seconds per mile.
As track runners like Gebrselassie and Paul Tergat of Kenya have turned to longer distances, the record for the marathon has fallen by more than two minutes in the past decade, since Ronaldo da Costa of Brazil won in Berlin in 2:06:05 in 1998.
After Sunday's victory, Gebrselassie told reporters that he had cramps in his calf two weeks ago and had missed a week of training.
Clearly, the layoff left him fresh, not rusty.
"I'm so happy," Gebrselassie told reporters.
"Everything was perfect.
I started again a week ago, and had some doubts today, but in the end everything was fine."
He has come under some criticism - especially in Kenya, Ethiopia's East African rival - for overly orchestrating his races, generally avoiding many of the world's top marathon stars, relying on pacemakers as if it were a track race, and placing world records ahead of a sense of competition.
But this criticism hardly diminishes the greatness of Gebrselassie's skill as a distance runner.
Paced by four Kenyans on Sunday, Gebrselassie reached the midway point in 1:02:04.
Two elite Kenyan runners, James Kwambai and Charles Kamathi, kept challenging Gebrselassie after the pacemakers faded.
A little more than three miles from the finish, Gebrselassie made a final surge to separate from Kwambai, who finished second in 2:05:36, improving his personal best by nearly five minutes.
Kamathi took third in 2:07:48.
In the women's race, Irina Mikitenko, a native of Kazakhstan who is now a German citizen, completed a remarkable year by winning in 2:19:19, the seventh-fastest time ever.
Paula Radcliffe of Great Britain holds the world record of 2:15:25.
Last spring, Mikitenko, 36, was a surprise winner of the London Marathon in 2:24:14.
She missed the Beijing Games with what was described as a back injury, but recovered to win in Berlin, setting a personal best by nearly five minutes in the third marathon she has run.
Askale Tafa Magarsa of Ethiopia took second in 2:21.31, while Helena Kiprop of Kenya finished third in 2:25:01.
In a Town Apart, the Pride and Trials of Black Life
Hidden in the theme-park sprawl of greater Orlando, a few miles from the shiny, the loud and the gargantuan, lies a quiet town where the pride and complications of the African-American experience come to life.
Eatonville, the first all-black town to incorporate in the country and the childhood home of Zora Neale Hurston, is no longer as simple as she described it in 1935: "the city of five lakes, three croquet courts, 300 brown skins, 300 good swimmers, plenty guavas, two schools and no jailhouse."
It is now a place of pilgrimage.
Alice Walker, Toni Morrison and Ruby Dee have come to the annual Zora! Festival in Eatonville to pay their respects to Hurston, the most famous female writer of the Harlem Renaissance.
And yet in many ways, the town she described - and made a tourist stop by including it in the Florida travel guide produced by the Depression-era Federal Writers' Project - remains a place apart.
It is as independent, dignified and private as it was in the 1930s, when Hurston wrote that rural blacks in Florida often resisted sharing their true thoughts with the white man, who "knowing so little about us, he doesn't know what he is missing."
Even now, in a year when a black presidential nominee, Senator Barack Obama, has called for an open conversation about race, many here remain wary of the outsider's gaze.
"We're very cautious about how our story is told," said Hortense Jones, 59, a lifelong resident and member of the town's oldest church.
"It needs to be right."
Eatonville has long been defined as a paradox of triumph and struggle.
It is both a historic model of black empowerment and a community of nearly 2,400 where the poverty rates are twice the national average.
It is a literary hub but also an oak-shaded example of rural Southern black culture - sometimes disdained, sometimes praised - that was born of American slavery.
Not surprisingly, residents here are both proud and protective.
And the concern about Eatonville's image really began with Zora, which is all anyone here calls Hurston.
She introduced the world to her hometown through heartfelt, dialect-heavy books like "Mules and Men" (1935) and "Their Eyes Were Watching God" (1937).
Five paragraphs in the Florida guidebook transformed the town, just off Route 17, a road that runs through the oft-forgotten center of Florida into a stage of black history and human drama.
Bold as a bass drum in both life and literature, Hurston led readers to the store owned by Eatonville's first mayor, Joe Clarke, then veered into more private areas.
"Off the road on the left," she wrote, "is the brown-with-white-trim modern public school, with its well-kept yards and playgrounds, which Howard Miller always looks after, though he can scarcely read and write."
She also mentioned the new husband of Widow Dash and wrote that Lee Glenn "sells drinks of all kinds and whatever goes with transient rooms."
So in just a few hundred words, Hurston linked Eatonville with self-government but also illiteracy, remarriage and sex.
Clearly, Fodor's this was not.
In fact, it was not a portrait everyone appreciated.
"Zora told it like it was," said Ella Dinkins, 90, one of the Johnson girls Hurston immortalized by quoting men singing off-color songs about their beauty.
She added: "Some people didn't like that."
Hurston is still remembered here as a vivacious eccentric who frequently returned after her family moved to Jacksonville, Fla.
Augustus Franklin, 77, recalled that when Hurston sped into town, she usually arrived without notice in a thumping Chevrolet, smoking and wearing pants in a town that even today prides itself on dignified dress.
Most residents were fascinated, Mr. Franklin said, while many sneered.
"People were always glad to see Zora," Mr. Franklin said.
But, he added, rocking in his chair on a back patio overlooking Lake Sabelia, where Hurston was most likely baptized, "she never did stay too long."
When Hurston died in 1960, she was poor and her books had fallen out of print.
Along with much of the world, Eatonville seemed to have forgotten her.
Though she was once a literary star, a contemporary of Langston Hughes and the only black woman at Barnard College in the 1920s, she was buried in an unmarked grave in Fort Pierce, Fla., where she had been living.
In Eatonville, there were no major memorial services, no grand public readings.
"I don't think they understood her contribution to the world or her legacy at all," said Valerie Boyd, author of "Wrapped in Rainbows," a Hurston biography published in 2003.
A turning point came in the 1980s.
Orange County officials wanted to put a five-lane highway through town to replace Kennedy Boulevard, the community's puttering two-lane main street.
Orlando's sprawl had already pushed Interstate 4 through the western edge of town.
The proposal came as Eatonville was still recovering from a difficult period in its history.
Forced integration, among other things, had ended the community's relatively idyllic isolation.
In the 1950s, the fight over racial mixing brought hate to the community's doorstep.
"During that time, a bunch of white boys, they would come through and throw oranges and things at people sitting down on the side," Mr. Franklin said.
"We actually had a lady that got killed from that once.
They threw a watermelon out of the car."
In a 1955 letter to The Orlando Sentinel, Hurston questioned the Supreme Court's demand for forced integration, calling its decision in Brown v. Board of Education "insulting rather than honoring my race."
Residents now say that the desegregation of schools, while positive in some respects, diluted Eatonville's cohesiveness and undermined the confidence of its youth.
"Black children were accustomed to being hugged - I remember this - you hugged your teacher in the morning, you hugged your teacher at night," said N. Y. Nathiri, the daughter of Ella Dinkins and the executive director of Preserve the Eatonville Community, a nonprofit group.
That lasted, she added, until the teachers and students did not come from the same place.
"You were not hugging your white teacher because your white teacher - I mean there's a cultural divide there," Ms. Nathiri said.
Civil rights, however, helped create space for many more Zora Neale Hurstons - black writers, actors and artists who rose above prejudice, like she did, with buoyant self-assurance and lines like: "How can any deny themselves the pleasure of my company!
It's beyond me."
In 1975, the writer Alice Walker trekked to Hurston's unmarked grave and began fighting to resurrect her reputation.
Five years later, an acclaimed Hurston biography by Robert E. Hemenway hit bookshelves, reintroducing her to the American canon.
The highway project arrived just as Eatonville's most famous daughter had once again found the spotlight.
And this time, Hurston's old neighbors saw her as a savior.
The community began planning in 1988 for a Hurston festival to show what the county could ruin with its highway.
Thousands of fans came to the inaugural event two years later, and each January, many return for the celebration.
After several years, the county backed away from its road proposal.
"The five-laning of the highway resurrected, it put in what you'd call warp speed, real civic pride," Ms. Nathiri said.
Ms. Boyd put it more simply: "Zora saved Eatonville."
Victory over the highway project has helped change the town's self-image.
Out-of-towners like Rachelle Munson, a lawyer who began coming to church here in 1993, started to appear in larger numbers, and residents started to revalue the past.
Eatonville joined the national historic registry in 1998.
A new one-story library (named after Hurston, of course) opened in 2006 on a repaved and beautified Kennedy Boulevard.
Today, Eatonville remains a Florida anomaly: only six miles from downtown Orlando, it can, at times, feel like a back street in a summer rain, as small as it did when it was founded with just 27 black families in the 1880s.
(It is 90 percent black today.)
Outsiders who come looking for Eatonville's story, its meaning, are often still treated with caution.
Advance permission is required for most interviews, and certain things - like the murals at Eatonville's oldest church, painted by a white man, showing black men in the fields - are not allowed to be photographed.
Many in Eatonville, like Ms. Jones, a bold, confident teacher partial to bright red, still fear that their insular community will be misunderstood.
And yet, as the Hurston festival has expanded, a heightened level of hometown pride has also emerged.
Young people, in particular, tend to see Eatonville as Hurston saw her entire race: beautiful, problems and all, no better, no worse and as proud, creative, hard-working, silly and mixed-up as other racial and ethnic groups in America.
It is sincere civic affection that can be heard in the voice of Mr. Franklin's nephew, Edwin Harvey, 18, who plans to come back to Eatonville after college to work in local government or for the Police Department, which he said could use some help.
And even those who are younger, like Alondra and Alexia Kenon, 11-year-old twins from Winter Park, seem to have learned to describe Eatonville correctly.
"Most people, if they just drive through here, they'll think, 'Oh, this city is nothing compared to any of the other ones,' " Alondra Kenon said after church on a recent Sunday.
"But if you actually stop and take a moment to look at the history, it's a very nice city."
Over here in New York we all speak fluent finance
On the face of it, nothing has changed.
If tourists in Manhattan kept away from newsstands and the gargantuan television screens in Times Square, they wouldn't realise they were standing in the eye of a storm.
They would never guess that in the glass-fronted, honeycomb offices above their heads the bankers and hedge fund managers who monopolise New York are daily having the worst "bad day at the office" since the crash of 1929.
Delivery boys still rattle metal tea trolleys across sidewalks, ferrying trays of muffins for breakfast meetings.
Latino men still shuffle between apartment buildings carrying, like human mules, 50-odd pressed shirts hanging from a yoke across their shoulders.
Office workers still wait in line for their morning bagel at pavement food carts, and it is still impossible to get a yellow cab between 4pm and 7pm on a weekday.
It didn't feel as if there was a crisis at all, until, with all the talk of doom and gloom, I decided to open a new savings account on Thursday afternoon.
Even though I had timed the chore to coincide with the late afternoon lull at my local branch of JP Morgan Chase, a queue of 20 or so people was already waiting in line.
Not in front of the teller windows, to withdraw cash or make a deposit, but in front of the customer service desk, where older clients order cheque books, tourists ask for directions to Macy's department store and new customers open accounts.
Most of those ahead of me, I was to learn later from Starr, my "licensed personal banker", were lining up for the same reason as me.
Unlike me, however, they had already withdrawn savings from smaller banks in places from where they commuted, from the likes of New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Staten Island.
They had taken out money from so-called thrifts (a bit like a building society), credit unions and the type of hometown savings banks whose branches only operate within one state, and who say they treat customers like family.
In the past year, 15 of these banks have quietly gone bust.
In the last few days Washington Mutual, a bank with $327 billion of assets, went into receivership, and as New Yorkers headed home for the weekend on Friday night, another bank, Wachovia, with savings deposits of $440 billion, was on the hunt for a rescue buyer.
The office and shop workers standing in front of me, scared of another collapse, were moving their cash to a bank perceived to be a safe haven, the bank that is doing most of the bailing out on Wall Street.
Ordinary New Yorkers in the last few weeks have become fluent in finance.
A woman at my local Chinese supermarket, speaking into her phone, referred to Lehman Brothers, the bust bank, and its gaunt-looking chief executive Dick Fuld with all the familiarity as if she were bitching about an idle colleague.
And Lyn, the uniformed, fifty-something concierge of my apartment block, has changed tack from our normal topic of conversation about Brad and Angelina or my grocery delivery.
She told me, after my visit to the bank, that "I got all my savings in money market funds now.
I've switched, I'm not taking any risks."
Muslim graves desecrated as Austria swings to the right
Heinz-Christian Strache, left of the Austrian right-wing Austrian Freedom Party and Filip Dewinter of Belgian right wing party Vlaams Belang, take part in a manifestation to present the organisation of "Cities against Islamisation" in Antwerp, Thursday 17 January 2008.
They carry traffic-style signs depicting mosques with a red line running through.
Police are blaming far Right extremists for desecrating a Muslim cemetery in Austria, the same weekend that the political parties of the far Right made huge gains in the country's general election.
Over 90 graves were severely damaged at the cemetery in Traun, near Linz, some time between Friday night and this morning, in what police believe was an organised action.
The offenders sprayed Jewish symbols such as the Star of David over some of the graves, but detectives believe this may have been a bid to disguise the motives of extremists driven by a hatred of Muslim immigrants.
It is not clear whether the incident was in any way related to the elections.
A spokesman for the local Islamic Community said they were "deeply shocked" at the news of the desecration, which comes as the Muslim religious month of Ramadan nears its end.
Austria is meanwhile embarking on a round of soul-searching following its swing to the right in yesterday's parliamentary elections.
The two far-Right parties that captured almost 30 percent of the vote, the Freedom Party and the Alliance for the Future of Austria, have campaigned on an vehemently anti-immigration ticket and some of their slogans were deemed xenophobic by critics.
Heinz-Christian Strache, the head of the Freedom Party that won over 18 per cent of the vote, campaigned against headscarves and burkas and even expressed his opposition to foods that are perceived to be related to Islam.
At his final rally in Vienna, he spoke of a "European brotherhood" to prevent the rise of Islam.
Both parties seek to ban the building of mosques and minarets, arguing that they were political symbols of an ongoing Islamisation of Austria and Europe.
Polls and analysis conducted immediately after the elections, which established the far Right as the country's strongest political bloc, indicate that the change was brought about by predominately young voters who are concerned about their future in the European Union.
Gary Glitter banned from trip abroad
Gary Glitter, the glam rock star convicted of child sex abuse, has been banned by the courts from travelling to France and Spain.
Magistrates imposed the six month ban on Glitter after he informed the authorities monitoring him that he wanted to travel to Spain via France.
Police in Kent were granted the foreign travel ban last Thursday after giving magistrates evidence of Glitter's previous convictions for child sex abuse.
Glitter, real name, Paul Gadd, did not attend the hearing at Ashford Magistrates court in Kent but he was represented by solicitors Corker Binning.
A Court Service spokesman said:"On Thursday September 25 at Ashford Magistrates' Court, Kent Police applied for an application to prevent foreign travel to France and Spain until March 25 by Mr Paul Gadd.
"Paul Gadd did not attend in person."
Glitter, 64, had informed the authorities that he wished to travel abroad as he is required to under the sex offenders register.
He must give the authorities notice if he wishes to travel abroad for more than three days.
He is also required to give police seven days notice of his planned departure date.
Failure to notify the authorities could lead to a five year prison sentence.
Kent Police said they would not discuss individual cases or the possible whereabouts of Glitter in the county.
A Kent Police spokeswoman said: "Kent Police will do everything necessary to protect children in this country, or abroad.
"From our point of view, it is easier to monitor someone who remains in the UK because we have comprehensive systems in place to manage any potential risks more effectively.
"Protecting the residents of Kent is the paramount concern of Kent Police and we work closely to monitor the behaviour of registered sex offenders in the county to minimise any risk to the public that may exist."
Glitter returned to the UK last month after spending 27 months in a Vietnamese jail for the abuse of two girls, aged 10 and 11.
When he was freed Glitter flew to Bangkok where he was due to board a flight to London.
But he said he felt ill and refused to fly to London.
The Thai authorities would not allow him through passport control and he eventually flew to Hong Kong.
Chinese authorities also refused him entry and he flew back to Bangkok where Thai police and immigration officials insisted he return to Britain.
He eventually arrived at Heathrow's Terminal 3 on August 22 and stayed there while his solicitor David Corker went to Uxbridge Magistrates Court, west London, as Scotland Yard successfully applied for an order requiring him to register as a sex offender.
Glitter had previously been jailed in the UK for four months in 1999 for possessing images of child abuse.
A Home Office source said that Jacqui Smith, the Home Secretary was reassured and glad that Glitter has been stopped from travelling to France and Spain.
Neither heels nor ruffles or stage clothes.
Only the essence of the great masters of flamenco, stripped of the concentration which characterizes the interpretation, to face a relaxed man or woman.
On one hand, the artist.
On the other, the person.
The two sides are inseparable, except in private life. In those moments, away from the public, the privacy of a gesture, the depth of a stolen glance or the expressiveness of the hands, are natural expressions because not prepared for the stage.
This is the photograph's aim when collecting an original iconography of flamenco, taken from different perspectives.
The exhibition, included in the Month of Flamenco Photography's program, reflects the importance of international flamenco, which increases day by day" the artist explains. He also clarifies that in "Flamenco-People" even it should be ordinary people, going through the pictures, the observers get these are not the classic images of artists, interpreters or performers on stage.
The people I portrayed on the street "are" artists able to convey passion, sadness and joy when on stage ... and finally, to capture their audience.
To catch the personality of these artists taking pictures of the scene is over.
It is much more an inner personality and character.
I'm very interested in creating an intimate atmosphere which permits me to capture the personality of the greats of flamenco by my camera." 
Bauer began his path to portray singers, guitarists and dancers in 1997 with a deep passion for the festival "Cante de las Minas". He likes to use a plate camera.
Due to the choice of the camera and the equipment, These portraits remember the classic photos.
The application of different stylistic techniques breaks with the iconographic traditional principles, giving the photos modernity, as Bauer considers flamenco: "A music with very traditional roots which evolves and still surprises every day more."
It is not the dancing, the singing or the playing itself, but the artist's personality, his character, able to conquer the audience through his art.
Famous flamenco artists such as Diego El Cigala, Chan Lobato, Cristina Hoyos, Enrique Morente, El Lebrija, Antonio Canales and Vicente Amigo among others, are included in this selection of around seventy portrayed artists. 
The project has also become an anthology of flamenco, going to be published in a book which collects the portraits displayed at the exhibition.
The passion for the portrait led Bauer to repeat the idea two years ago with "Portraits of veteran athletes"("SportARTproject").
Although in "Flamenco-People" the concept is different, the photographer admits "I love to portray people, to know them and to penetrate into their lives for a while, being this a long or short moment.
I think portray is the most difficult subject in photography.
You meet or face people and characters sometimes you even know or persons who bestow you only a few minutes to take the picture.
Beyond circumstances, as a photographer, I always try to realize my ideas."
Vargas Llosa admits the novel he's writing is a "chance"
The novel sets in a place the author does not know yet and tells of an unknown subject. Despite this, Mario Vargas Llosa is struggling with the new project he is working at, a novel whose protagonist, Roger Casemant, is an Irish nationalist who spent twenty years of his life in Congo and crossed Amazon.
The writer, always favoured for the Nobel Prize in Literature, confessed yesterday during the Hay Festival in Segovia, that the draft he is dealing with is a "chance" and that everything indicates that I should not write it down."
"If I had good sense, I do not write it at all, but I'm going ahead anyway and I hope to finish it once and for all," he concluded his speech at this festival for the exchange of ideas, thoughts and words that saw many guests, during the four days, passing by the Aqueduct's city. Hundreds of writers, historians and journalists and thousands of people joined it.
The author of "La ciudad y los perros" was a prominent figure in the third edition of the word's festival, as forecasted.
Vargas Llosa, who won the Hay Festival prize being the most voted writer by participants - an ancient edition of "Our mutual friend" by Dickens, packed the theatre Juan Bravo with fans.
The Hispanic-American novelist, acknowledged that "there is no way to measure how and how much books can affect people's lives. I refuse to believe that literature is a pure and ephemeral entertainment experience," said Vargas Llosa who, also supported that "the literature has a strong impact and pushes people to be nonconformist." So he suggested the writers "not to give into frivolity" and to "take the responsibility" of their own vocation.
Weather hampers the Pozoblanco festival, which remains with no bullfights
The bullfights which were to seal the days of the festival of Pozoblanco were suspended yesterday morning after the bull fighters had assured that the square's soil conditions were not adequate for the celebrations.
Therefore, the company, together with Fermin Bohorquez, Pablo Hermoso de Mendoza and Leonardo Hernandez, decided to suspend the bullfighting.
The weather was rather fierce against this Festival and prevented two over three celebrations.
Saturday, the rain had prevented the holding of the second bullfight.
The billboard included Jose Luis Moreno, Curro Diaz and Juan Bautista, who would have faced a bull of Castilblanco.
So far, the only celebration took place on Friday.
This was the triumph of Daniel Luque, who cut three ears and was brought on shoulders after he had bull fought with taste and aesthetics.
The same afternoon Alejandro Talavante completed his two bullfights and collected greetings and one ear, granted by the public more than by the quality of the bullfight itself.
Among all, the worst was El Juli, who passed by the bull-ring of Los Llanos gaining no glory, no penalty.
With the second bull, after a tremendous muleta, he earned the boos of a bigger part of the public.
A van loaded with two thousand kilos of hashish skips a road block in Alava
Ten to six in the morning.
The officials order the two occupants of a van to stop but they, instead, give to flee.
Their cargo, more than two tons of hashish, is a good reason for not stopping.
The officers chase after them, are succeed in arresting one over two occupants. The man, 28 years old, is identified as A. A. J., as reported in a press release by the Department of the Interior of the Basque Government.
The arrested person is charged with drug trafficking and forgery of public documents.
They were going to stop a van for inspection when the driver, breached of the orders, sharply accelerated and just skipped the road block.
The officials chased the van until the vehicle stopped after a couple of miles on the edge of the road, and its two occupants flew into a wooded area.
The blocks of hashish, which were located in the rear of the vehicle, were subsequently placed under police custody for a deep investigation and detection of weight.
Moreover, since officials found that the chassis number had been "duplicated" because it did not coincide with the one reported in the van's documentation, the arrested man was also charged for public documents' falsification.
The Ertzaintza is continuing its investigations to arrest the second suspected person who managed to flee as mentioned above, and to determine the origin of seized drugs.
The prisoner, A. A. J., 28 years old, was conducted to the police station to perform the appropriate procedures. He will be available to the court in the coming hours.
The actress Heather Locklear arrested for driving while addicted with drugs
The actress Heather Locklear, Amanda of the popular series Melrose Place, was arrested this weekend in Santa Barbara (California) after driving under the influence of drugs.
A witness viewed her performing inappropriate maneuvers while trying to take her car out from a parking in Montecito, as revealed to People magazine by a spokesman for the Californian Highway Police.
The witness stated that around 4.30pm Ms. Locklear "crushed the accelerator very thoroughly, making excessive noise and trying to take the car out from the parking with abrupt back and forth maneuvers. By reversing, she passed several times in front of his sunglasses."
Shortly after, the witness, who, in a first time, apparently had not recognized the actress, saw Ms. Locklear stopping in a nearby street and leaving the vehicle.
It was this person to alert the emergency services, because "he was concerned about Ms. Locklear's life."
When the patrol arrived, the police found the actress sitting inside her car, which was partially blocking the road.
"She seemed confused," and for this reason the policemen led her to a specialized centre for drugs and alcohol and submitted her a test.
According to a spokesman for the police, the actress has proven collaborative and the hypothesis of excessive alcohol was discarded since the very first moment, even if "as the officers observed at first sight, we believe Ms. Locklear was under the effect of any drug."
Ms. Locklear was arrested under suspicion of driving under the influence of some - not better specified substance, and imprisoned in the local jail at 7.00pm, to be released some hours later.
Two months ago, Ms. Locklear was out of a specialist clinic in Arizona where she was cured after an episode of anxiety and depression.
Llamazares urges the Andalusian federation of IU to assume its responsibilities in the Silva case
Gaspar Llamazares, the general coordinator of IU and member of the party Izquierda Unida, confirmed today that the decision for the case concerning the councillor for Youth and Sport of the city of Siviglia, Francisco Manuel Silva, who resigned last week after the accusation of cronyism. The case will be up to the regional federation for training.
"I'm very federalist when considering this kind of issues, and the Andalusian organization needs to assume its responsibilities," said Llamazares regarding the resolution the party should adopt with the man who was an alderman in Siviglian board until now.
Moreover, the leader stressed the need for "transparency" in all possible investigations regarding whatever irregularity Silva had committed, "The UI always wanted these kind of investigations to have the maximum transparency."
Similarly, he stressed that training goes under "very strict codes of ethics for all public functions."
"Sangre de mayo", an epic challenge by Garci.
Sangre de mayo, a film longer than 2.30 hours, debuts this Friday at the cinemas, to become a four hours TV miniseries on TeleMadrid in next future.
The 15 million budget totally allocated by the Community of Madrid represented for Garci a "unique opportunity" to recreate the appropriate sets and costumes to portray a "stunned Spain that chose the wrong leader to fight for and the fact that the fight for independence led people to a huge delay in development during the reign of Ferdinand VII" said Garci.
However, the director regrets not having received equal funds of Alatriste or Los fantasmas de Goya - more than twice compared to Sangre de mayo. So far, it was not possible to shoot some scenes included in the plan, he himself had signed together with Horacio Valcarcel, his career-long collaborator.
The difference of budget influenced the usual way of working of the director of Volver a empezar: for example, the staging with the actors, with whom he often uses to rehearse before shooting together with the ones who do not belong to the cast, considering this "humiliating" and thinking that "the work of the director lies in going to the theatre and to the cinema to realize how the industry he is working for is going on."
A certain number of interpreters, some of which fall within the cast of Sangre de mayo, repeat in front of his video-camera. It is the case of Michael Rell, Carlos Larranaga or Fernando Guillen Cuervo.
Garci does not expect awards from this film.
"At first you think of working for posterity, then you realize you only work for the prosperity, and at certain point you just shoot a film more," says Garcia after more 30 years of career.
Isabel Bayon rediscovers the essence of the siviglian dancer Tortola Valencia
A siviglian dancer pays tribute to another siviglian dancer.
She was a ballet dancer and a free style and oriental dances' specialist.
Her life was rather fascinating and she was a pioneer of women's emancipation, such as Isadora Duncan, Virginia Woolf or Sarah Bernhardt.
She was Buddhist and vegetarian, and defended the cause for the corset's abolition because it prevented women from moving freely.
The life of this woman that marks a revolution in the aesthetics of dance in Europe between the two wars, had always fascinated Isabel Bayon.
"I'd liked to work with Pepa Gamboa, and she proposed me to interpret this character. It seemed to me incredible."
According to the dancer "we do not pretend to tell her whole life, but to collect her spirit.
Her dances' titles suggested me some elements of flamenco.
Thus, "la danza de la Mariposa" suggested me a guajira, or the "danza de la serpiente" some tangos.
Her dance was sensual and I was told my way of dancing is part of this aesthetic, too" she says.
The staging includes two outstanding contributions: that of Miguel Poveda, who will sing again Isabel in one of the shows, the same he did in "La puerta abierta", and the master Matilde Coral, which exceptionally wanted to work together with a former student of hers.
"Matilde interprets Tortola in the adulthood, she is the character of maturity.
I'm very happy she accepted to play in my work and I feel very honoured for this."
This work also tell something of this woman's life because it was mainly held in distant places, particularly for her time, such as India, United States or Russia, as well as the whole Europe, using her to reside in London.
"I wanted to remember her, because I think she was one of that women who had an enormous influence in a specific historical period. Nowadays nobody remembers of her and even considers her work as something of value" supports Bayon.
The show will be on stage starting from today, 20.30pm, at the theatre Lope de Vega.
In addition, the Department of Culture of the Committee of Andalusia has acquired a total of eight hundred copies of the "Diario de un Poeta Reciencasado", edited by Peter Tabernero and illustrated by James Perez-Enciso, to promote and spread the figure and the works of one of the highest Andalusian poets.
We like America a bit less without Paul Newman
"Sometimes God creates perfect people.
Paul Newman was one of those."
The sentence is by Sally Field, who worked with him in "Ausencia de malicia" and gives the feeling of American cinema's impotence, and throughout America, facing the shock that Newman has gone.
And awarding him with an Oscar had been quite hard.
And in 2007 he had retired.
And people also knew he was very ill.
Although this, it was a very hard blow for all.
"Sometimes your feelings go far beyond any word, and now I lost a great friend," cried Robert Redford, "my life and my country improved quite a lot thanks to his existence."
No one was afraid of result ridiculous or exaggerate.
A father of the cinema and of the country had died in a particularly dark period, with the fear of terrorists and markets, with American people's self-esteem on the ground, desperately seeking new reasons to feel worthy.
When times are so difficult, men so less virtuous and with very few beings admired by people, you have not to be Luis Cernuda to love Paul Newman.
For all people he embodied the Platonic ideal of beauty and truth.
He was an official enemy of Richard Nixon and a supporter of lost and won causes, starting from the foundation to fight drugs he created in honour of the firstborn who died of overdoses until the promotion of a new brand for home-made and organic food.
All gifts he did to a country which had to pay huge costs to go beyond a suicidal food culture.
The wave of admiration went beyond Hollywood, independently from nationality or passport.
The latest James Bond, the English actor Daniel Craig, observed that this is not a dead man, it is an era which is over.
Another English man, Sam Mendes, a director who won the Oscar, said that working with Newman was nothing less than the highest peak of his career.
The bad boy arrived from Australia, Russell Crowe, arrived to define Paul Newman as his biggest inspiration.
"He left an example of the highest level for all of us," notes George Clooney, perhaps one of the few who try to live today as Paul Newman did: maintaining in high consideration the need for rectitude and having a serious private life, away from the cameras.
This is not always easy or possible in contemporary media jungle.
However, some people will try and Paul Newman will remain a very good example to get them inspired.
After the divorce, his second marriage with Joanne Woodward lasted fifty years long, and he remained faithful having certainly opportunities for not being so.
"Why am I going out to have my hamburgers, when I can have a good steak at home?" used to joke himself.
In the sky he is accompanied by the pride of his daughters who are also his fans on the earth, something not so common in America.
"Of all the major roles he interpreted, none he was so proud of than that of devoted husband, loving father, attentive grandfather and passionate philanthropist" they say.
The imperfect race of an Olympic Madrid
Yes, the dream of many of us is that one day Olympics will be held in Madrid and, after the failed attempt in 2012, this could happen in 2016.
But I wonder, are we ready?
If we follow the example of yesterday race, I just say no!
They called it the "perfect race" but in my opinion it was by far the worst I witnessed.
All a nonsense, that if taken into account during the evaluation and I had to examine it, the output would be totally negative.
But let's go with order and start from the very beginning.
The nonsense began with the collection of the back number, which presupposed you went there before the race.
It did not seem a bad idea, but if you're forced to go, it should be to withdraw all things (including the chip to avoid queues during the race).
But this was not.
We went there just to collect the back number (first nonsense, just go for this only reason) and (after the queue), surprise! they only had "S" size T-shirts (second nonsense, because I need an XL).
What kind of world are we living in?
Is it to blame the crisis if they bought only small T-shirts, made with smaller tissue and therefore less expensive?
Well, these things were nothing if compared with the day of the race.
We had to go very early to collect the chip but the queue was 15 minutes long and, furthermore, you had to deposit your backpack.
The wait lasted more than 35 minutes, something incomprehensible for a race where you expect more than 11,000 people.
Then, as expected, the race started when we had not even handed over the backpack, although, once succeeded, the recovery was even worse.
In addition, the rain threatened the waiting longer than 40 minutes, which went along with a kind of popular rebellion and an attempted assault to stand.
I believe we will be around 500 people surely with pneumonia tomorrow, and some, like me, not even resulted in the proper arrival order because of the chip, which, I suppose, did not record the arrival time properly.
In future, if I will be asked for the perfect race, this one wont't certainly enter in my thoughts.
At the end of the day, I think we will continue to dream of an Olympic and well prepared city.
Microsoft looks for a (virtual)receptionist
During the conference on Emerging Technologies at the MIT, Microsoft presented a preview of the new recognition and human interaction system, a kind of artificial intelligence, but without that much intelligence, able to perform some basic tasks, such as call a taxi (or, in the scenario described by Microsoft, a shuttle service to move within the company's campus) "understanding" what happens in a standard conversation.
It may also clustered people in groups of conversation.
The demo showed that the receptionist notes a third person, understands he does not belong to the group he is talking with and that he is not a company's employee.
It asks him if he's there to visit someone and says it will attend him as soon as possible.
This without any awful blue screen.
Awesome.
But this is the future, of course.
Now the company needs to focus on many other issues, such as the next Windows operating system's release.
This week it was a big talk on Microsoft's change of strategy.
Windows 7 will be lighter and will not be charged with so many programs.
Steve Ballmer has discovered that if computers are equipped with the essential functions and less commercial rubbish, these should be five times faster - hey! Steve, will be for less.
A real discovery, if one takes into account the fact that Microsoft, version after version has only added features and "extras" to Windows.
The change of direction is very welcome.
Microsoft is right: the operating system will be increasingly losing importance, and the software with it.
When Google launched Chrome, I was one of those who supported the theory this was the first step Google made to compete with Windows.
Many rightly pointed out that a browser is not an operating system.
The operating system will be always a necessity because it is the essential element through which hardware and software can communicate.
It performs the same function of your wife or your husband when you have something to say to your mother-in-law.
It's true.
It won't ever disappear, perhaps you just need to think about the "death" of the operating system as a relative event rather than as an absolute one.
What Ballmer said this week confirms this idea.
People give less attention to the operating system, and increasingly focus on the browser.
They only use the computer to launch Explorer or Firefox - or Chrome - daily and spend a longer time browsing the web rather than working in a window environment.
What half of the operating system's applications are there for?
Less is more.
And Windows 7 should be less, much less than Vista.
Less heavy, less loaded, less complex.
A Microsoft more interested in integrating its online services should constitute a viable alternative to Google.
Actually, they desperately need it. Let's take a little example.
I shot the photo of this post during the Microsoft employees' break, in Redmond, earlier this month.
A sign, hanging on the soft drinks' machine suggested them to use the company's search engine - "Your search. Our Future".
In 2006, an independent study reached the conclusion that the 66% of Microsoft employees used Google to search on the net.
Last week, moreover, Microsoft confirmed the delay in developing the new version of Windows Mobile 7.
It will not be launched on the market at the beginning of 2009, but even at the end, maybe in 2010.
Microsoft surely will try a joint launch, Windows 7 and Windows Mobile 7 together.
Our phones, at the very end, is increasingly becoming a computer.
But the delay, with Android and the iPhone already on marketing, will result detrimental.
The Fabuleux Marcel
Pablo Picasso used to dress it while in the French Riviera, Leonardo di Caprio shone with one of this in 'Diamante de sangre' by Edward Zwick, as well as Al Pacino in 'The Godfather' of Francis Ford Coppola. Moreover, it is part of the typical uniform worn by the muscular gay parish.
If we try to count the number of stars wearing it, we can also recall the image of the strong-built man with pointed mustache who lifted weights in the strolling circus.
Finally, this is nothing more than the typical T-shirt for men, with a cotton interior, tight and sleeveless shape.
It is the 'tank', as English speakers call it, though, the Brussels Fabuleux Marcel stands out above all.
First of all, this is due to its grandiose name - even if it is commonly known just as "Marcel" - name that has something to do with the sport because it derives, according to the legend, from the boxer Marcel Cerdan, who loved the singer Edith Piaf.
The "Marcel" excels - if compared to the others - for its high quality cotton, for its unisex cutting, for his distinctive little shield and the small Belgian flag (barely recognizable), which the most emblematic models keep as a detail on the neck.
And open your eyes!, because the Belgian company does not produce only its famous "tank".
The production also includes college sweats, vintage boxers, cashmere cardigans, cotton trousers, sailor shirts, baby-dolls, mini shorts...
Garments meant to be comfortable.
It is a pity to use them as underwear.
They're too smart.
"I want to be a young mother, doesn't matter the candidate"
The great resemblance with her sister has not prevented her from developing a strong personality.
Monica Cruz is a tiny woman, but still, full of vitality.
Currently, both the Cruz sisters have taken very seriously their new activity in the fashion field.
According to Monica, it is much more than beautiful girls and celebrities who lend their names.
She went to Paris for the campaign Mango is hanging on to promote the new branch, and the presentation of the most important prizes for fashion sponsored by the Spanish fashion house.
Warm and timid, she conquers you quite quickly.
Tell us what you're doing in Paris.
I came here to present the new collection my sister Penelope and I have designed for the new Mango autumn-winter season, to join the second edition of 'Mango Fashion Awards' and the Opera dinner in honour of Valentino.
Let's say, a very intense day but a very exciting one, at the same time.
What is the inspiration of your new collection for Mango in this fourth season of work for the Spanish fashion house?
Both my sister that I like the cinema of the 50s and 60s. From there we get bigger inspirations.
Then, I like to get lost in the city and look at how women dress, at the way they combine and mix their clothes. I do it quite frequently.
Dancer, actress and designer, you're a very versatile woman, aren't you?
I think so, although at the very end, all merged and many elements remain cross-field ideas.
I liked clothes since I was a child. I loved to visit my grandmother to rummage in my aunt's cupboards and discover her clothes.
It was so good!, much better than going to the amusement park.
Then, once a dancer, I always took great care of my dressing.
It is known dancers really like to have their own style when going to class and dance recitals, to look themselves in the mirror and feel good.
And in the actress role, when you are delivered the wardrobe, this is the time you actually encounter the character.
So, everything goes together, yes, with a lot of respect for designers and professionals.
Not long ago, you celebrated your 30 years, did you entered a crisis?
Absolutely I didn't.
I've never felt better, I like to be 30 years old.
I find it is the age when women are mature enough and can take advantage of a good experience to enjoy life and commit fewer errors.
I'm not scared by the biological clock.
Since I was a child, I did all the things I liked to do and this gave me a great inner happiness.
So, are you thinking of being mother or not?
Yes, of course, I'm. I know it is my same body pushing me for this and also I want to be a young mom, I'm not gonna miss it.
I will give my son a lot of happiness and I will educate him with bigger love.
Talking about cinema, you are waiting the release of some films you acted last year.
That is, and I'm really curious about that.
Coming from the theatrical experience, I am a very impatient and anxious woman, I want everything now and clearly, but I know this may not be always possible.
Let's see if you like it...
Few days ago you debuted on the catwalk side by side with Naomi Campbell, didn't you?
Well, don't put it this way.
It's not I was on the catwalk as a professional model.
Simply Naomi Campbell, whom I know since a long time, called and invited me to go to London and attend a charity fashion show for her organization "Women for a Better World". The clothes presented during the show - I brought two pieces from our collection for Mango - have been sold at auction to raise funds for this Naomi's NGO.
People usually ignore this Naomi's tender heart.
It is said so many things on her, that, knowing her quite well, I can assure you are not true.
Moreover, I like to share and get involved in this good part of hers.
She asked me to be shown for a noble cause, but if I had asked to play a pine, I would do it anyway.
You cannot back out of helping the third world women.
Drivers reticent of alcoholism should install the 'alcolock'
The Interior Office wants the driver under three administrative penalties for excessive alcoholic rate, to install in their car a system that prevents driving the vehicle when drunk. The same if you do not blow into the measuring device.
The measure was announced last June and has been already included in the Annual Report of the State Attorney General, according to which it will be a pilot project for a period of one year.
This project's goal is the reinstatement of the driver, since he will need to attend a course of road re-education.
The initiative is supported by the Attorney General for Road Safety, together with the General Directorate of Traffic(DGT) and the Technological Institute Foundation for Security in the Automobile(FITS).
According to statistics, between 30% and 75% of drivers fined more than once for drunk driving, still drive a car.
The 'alcolock' would avoid this, because the device, connected to the vehicle, measures the rate of alcohol in breath and prevents the driver from getting the car if he does not blow inside it, or in case it detects in the car an higher alcoholic concentration than permitted by law.
The cost of the device, a bit more than 1000 euro, should be charged to the sanctioned.
In this regard, a study conducted in 2007 in the United States proved that vehicles equipped with these devices can reduce the infringements up to 65% during the first year of introduction.
And in Spain it was estimated it could save around 115 lives in one year.
The measure is limited to administrative sanctions for two reasons: first of all to stop these behaviors before they turn into criminal offenses.
And second, to facilitate the implementation of this practice, as the legal reform can be ordinarily made, but, on the contrary, the necessary reform of the criminal procedure requires to go through an organic law.
The device is not yet available on the Spanish market in any commercial solution, even if it has already been introduced on an experimental basis in some trucks and public transports.
Just tomorrow, the Congress of Deputies will vote a PSOE's initiative by which the party proposes to install the system in school buses, as has already been done in France.
In Mexico, and without her peep-toes"
The sunset was almost done but the sun's rays still forced you to use your hand as a visor to see the royal couple getting off the plane.
The Spanish ambassador and other authorities stood at the foot of the ladder.
A few hours before I had asked a taxi driver, along the street, if he knew that the Spanish princes were about visiting the city to formalize an official travel.
- Ah, very good, so we cannot go to the airport and collect people in that time band... Is she from here or...
- No, no sir, she is Spanish, but lived in your country for a couple of years.
- Ah, well...
On the way round, the Mexican press perfectly knows who are the princes of Asturias and is aware of the importance of the travel.
Many are those who wait for them at the airport's hangar, crowded together on the red carpet and closed to a military line composed by 27 navy soldiers offering the honour greeting.
The prince appears smiling, with a navy blue dress, and she, the princess, hair in the wind, very sober, does not wear her "peep-toes" as usual. Perhaps she had been reported Mexico City is threatened by bad weather.
They give photographers a smile and a brief stopover before moving to the room where the official group is looking forward to them.
By the door of the hotel where they're going to stay, one of the biggest four in the city, a funny reporter of Mexican television waits for them.
The best fashion award
Probably there is not a more appropriate place in the world than Paris to present a fashion award, and probably there is not a living designer as exquisite as Valentino.
It offers a prize of 300,000 euros.
Moreover, the company's store is the second largest in Europe, recently opened on 1335 square meters' space.
The most important one is located in London.
The numerous events, combined with the desire to please the designer Valentino who chaired the jury of the contest, brought us to a luxury dinner at the Garnier Opera in Paris.
The proximity of the most exquisite paintings by Chagal made the presidential gala table prepared by Mango even more spectacular.
Nati, with a broken heart and making a virtue of necessity, because of the recent death of her brother, wore a dress of the company and fashion complements by ELAH that took your breath away. So, arm in arm with her son Luis - a two meters height boy - accompanied Valentino to the presidency of the tribute dinner she had organized.
Andik, owner and master of Mango, welcomed the guests and as the gentleman he is, along with Baron Rotchil arrived at the end of the night without his jacket, because both had granted it to two ladies.
Next morning we welcomed the presence of Olivier Martinez - another boy who likes moving by motorbike - and John Travolta, who arrived at the Intercontinental Hotel of Paris, bringing his own sheets, towels and only after asking to have no smells in his room.
Stars under the starlit Paris sky.
1001, the number anti-stress
It is not 1000 but 1000 and 1 the way to forget the chaotic and hectic everyday life.
And if it seems not enough, all these ways have been collected in a book which will bring the relax to the bookstores by the 30th of September.
The alarm clock is almost a punishment when ringing every morning at 7 o'clock, but the worst is imaging yourself involved in the frantic pace dictated by modern life.
Office means tension, computer back pain.
Stress is the illness of the twenty-first century.
However, you are offered now neither one nor two ways to combat daily exhaustion and the struggle in taking a proper distance from the work's dimension,
but no more no less than 1001 ways.
Beyond yoga positions, the classic massage or the "spa" treatments, Susannah Marriott collects in the pages of her book, a "menu" full of options tailored to individual tastes and needs.
The anti-stress work is titled "1001 ways to relax" and will be available in the libraries thanks to Pearson Alhambra and DK publishers.
If someone believes winning the peace in areas such as business or personal relationships is not possible, this "manual" denies that belief.
It also suggests alternatives, such as staying in touch with nature, or provides 100% natural recipes that help to relax.
If the adrenaline is not already flowing in your veins to produce the balance of the body and stress has become a major problem for you, it's time to sit on the couch, turn off your mind and focus on reading.
Speaking while sleeping
Some children speak during the night.
I am not referring to those who wake up very agitated to tell us something happened to them the day before, but those children who talk while asleep.
The first time it happens, at most, you get scared, but it really does not have that much importance.
This is a benign alteration of sleep, defined somniloquy.
It is a quite common phenomenon, especially in children and adolescents.
Certainly, most of you have been told talked in your sleep.
This phenomenon can occur very sporadically (just once in life, for example, associated with an episode of high fever) or on a more regular basis (every day, once a week, once in the month ...). The day after the child does not remember anything.
There is not a single reason to explain the presence of somniloquy.
Sometimes it should be linked to other sleep disorders such as nightmares, night fears, nocturnal enuresis (do pee in bed), or sleepwalking, but it is not necessarily the case.
As mentioned above, it may be associated with stages of very high fever, in situations of stress or over excitement.
In any case, this phenomenon is not researched that well.
Even its intensity is extremely variable.
It may happen a person speaks with a very quiet tone of voice, with loose words, almost in a whisper, or the opposite (screams, cries, long speeches ...).
In case the event is particularly intense, the child should be observed and possibly, a specialist should be consulted to check if the abnormal state of anxiety is due to any question, thus is generated by the child in order to vent his feelings.
We said that this is a benign alteration, therefore there is not a specific treatment unless it is associated with other sleep disorders which, instead, can be treated (for example, if coupled with insomnia or a situation of stress).
What you can do instead is taking into consideration a number of very simple preventive measures, such as:
Try not to over-excite the child before going to sleep.
Propose calm games and avoid television programs or series that inspire fear or suggest violence.
Very nervous children for whom relaxing is a very hard task, need you use relaxation techniques to help them acquire a certain inner calm.
This will allow the child to sleep more peacefully.
Once somniloquy appears, try to keep calm.
Remember that it is an inoffensive phenomenon for the child and that the next day he will not remember anything of it.
Useful Tips
Don't wake him up.
It is useless, because he is not aware of what is going on, and you just interrupt his sleeping.
Although he is talking, he is asleep and thus, he is resting.
Remember that if he appears very anguished and the episodes have a certain frequency is better to consult a doctor or to verify from where such a great anxiety comes from.
If you get what he is saying (which is not the most common situation) does not fall into temptation to make him an interrogation to obtain information.
Do not get anything, because he is sleeping and he is not conscious to organize his thoughts.
In addition, you are only able to hear what he says but you cannot see what he is dreaming about to say that things. Therefore, be very careful with any interpretation of the information you get and about the conclusions you might lead.
Do not ever tell your child you could ask him something during the night to know his secrets.
Not even jokingly.
This can generate a huge anxiety.
In short, do not worry, it's nothing serious, just an episode that lasts few minutes.
Illhaeusern... finally
Illhaeusern has finally regained its path to victory on its own soil after a long period of draught.
Without playing a great match, the Yellow and Black have created the most occasions and managed to turn one of these into the match winner.
The rhythm was not very steady during the match and the attackers found it hard to express themselves.
After a first attempt by the guest captain Kauffmann who narrowly missed the goal from a far shot, Illhaeusern went on to take a slight lead and in turn Fonderflick from afar, then with Hirn from high, Romain with the tip of his foot or again Diebold came to tickle the Dannemarie defence.
At the front, there was a midfield block that allowed just the centre forward Riahi at the forefront of the attack.
The beginning of the second half was decisive with the first two occasions dominated by Riahi and Temporale for Dannemarie, immediately after the score was opened for Illhaeuserns by Marais, well positioned to pick up a ball bounced off an initial attempt by Diebold (53').
But the Illhaeusern striker did not enjoy his success for long and was forced to return to the locker room a dozen minutes later, leaving his team-mates numerically inferior.
But Dannemarie could not profit and could not cause any major problems to the Illhaeusern Eleven who just fell back a little to make its defence more "compact", except in the very last few seconds of the game where, after a big mess, the ball went very near the crosspiece.
Sarkozy meets angry fishermen.
Before leaving for the United States, Nicolas Sarkozy is going to make a trip to Brittany.
The latter have promised to accept "with a constructive spirit" and they hope he "will arrive with practical proposals".
A presidential visit which occurs at the same time as the general meeting of the "crisis committee" created by fishermen in Brittany to come up with measures of addressing the soaring prices of oil, which peaked at an average of more than 1.14 Euro per litre.
Nicolas Sarkozy is expected with determination by the fishermen.
On Tuesday morning, they conducted slow driving operations in the Morbihan and Calvados, causing traffic jams for almost 10 km.
The leisure craft harbour of Quiberon was also blocked, but the roads to Belle-Isle were not blocked.
A filtering roadblock was set up on the Quiberon peninsula.
The sailors have already shown their determination on Monday by burning, since dawn, tires and pallets in front of the fuel depots at the port of Brest and Lorient, while demonstrations were taking place in Concarneau or Saint-Brieuc.
Fishermen in La Turballe and Croisic, in Loire-Atlantique, in the evening stopped the blockade of the important Total refinery at Donges.
Those at Boulogne-sur-Mer have decided to wait until after the meeting at the ministry on Wednesday to decide on possible actions.
In Guilvinec, the "crisis committee" has to decide on Tuesday whether to comply with the movement and its participation in the planned meeting at the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries in Paris.
But some Breton fishermen do not want to be represented by the officials of the National Committee of Fisheries, which did not support their movement.
"The strike will continue" because "the fishermen will not give up" and "do not want to have to move onto Paris", for example, announced Liliane Cariou, president of the Fisheries Committee of Lorient.
Professional fishermen, who pay no taxes on diesel, currently pay about 50 cents per litre but believe that the threshold of profitability for a vessel is achieved with diesel fuel prices less than 0.30 Euro per litre .
Paul Newman the Magnificent
The unforgettable interpreter of "Butch Cassidy and the Kid" died as a result of cancer at the age of 83, in his home in Connecticut.
Hillary and Bill Clinton, Nicolas Sarkozy, George Clooney, Julia Roberts, Robert Redford or Sam Mendes paid tribute to the cinema legend and devoted actor, Paul Newman, who died at the age of 83.
Embraer maintains its delivery forecast for 2008
The Brazilian aircraft manufacturer is counting on 215 planes to be delivered this year despite threats of recession hanging over the global economy.
The fourth largest global aircraft manufacturer, Embraer will maintain its delivery forecast for 2008 with 215 aircraft delivered, reaffirmed Fredrico Fleury Curado, its chairman.
In the first semester, the manufacturer has delivered 97 aircraft.
The Brazilian manufacturer put a lot of hope on the Chinese market especially for its aircraft range of 30 to 120 seats.
To date, Embraer delivered 41 aircraft to Chinese customers in eight years.
AIG would cede more than 15% of its assets
The International American Insurance Group, that the U.S. monetary authorities have refloated, plans to sell more than 15% of its assets to repay the $85 billion that were advanced to it, according to the Sunday edition of the Financial Times.
AIG is ready to explore the sale of most of its activities beyond its international life insurance and its pension business in the United States, said the newspaper quoting sources close to the case.
The administration board of AIG met on Sunday evening to consider possible cessations, according to the FT.
No confirmation could be obtained from AIG.
The assets which AIG plans to cede include its leasing subsidiary Air International Lease Financial Corp., its participation of 59% in the reinsured Transatlantic Holdings, and its property portfolio in addition to its private equity investments, the FT added.
No final decision has been taken on these disposals, the FT continued.
AIG must quickly find the funds to repay the loan of 85 billion that it has with the Federal Reserve or else risk seeing the U.S. authorities take 80% of its shares, diluting the proportion due to current shareholders.
Analysis Paris Historical of the Meeting Morning Historic Morning Meeting
The New York Stock Exchange showed a historical fall on Monday after the rejection by the House of Representatives of the Paulson plan to rescue the banks: the Dow Jones lost 6.98%, a loss never seen before approaching 800 points, and Nasdaq 9.14%.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) fell by 777.68 points to 10365.45 points.
In terms of points, the biggest drop in its history (684.81 points) had previously been recorded on 17 September 2001, the day of the resumption of trade after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11.
The Nasdaq index, mainly technological, has lost 199.61 points to 1983.73 and the expanded Standard & Poor's 500 index 8.81% (or 106.85 points) to 1106.55 points, according to final closing figures.
Already suffering a depression at the beginning of the meeting, Wall Street went down after the unexpected rejection by the House of Representatives of the rescue plan for banks that was to inject some stability in the markets.
With 228 votes against and 205 for, the delegates have refused to Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson the resources he asked for.
Nearly two out of three Republicans rejected his plan.
"This shows how much the market relied on this plan," she added, fearing that a draft adopted in several days time can be "too late".
"If the project is effectively dead (...) then the relay will be quickly passed to the Fed (i.e. the U.S. central bank) and other central banks to manage the crisis which would further tighten the credit conditions", predicted Brian Bethune, chief economist at Global Insight.
After the bankruptcy of Washington Mutual on Friday, the authorities have organized the takeover of Wachovia's banking activities by its rival Citigroup.
In Europe, the crisis has accelerated sharply, pushing for emergency interventions by banks in the United Kingdom, Benelux, Iceland and Germany, a sign that the markets face "not only a crisis in U.S., but a global crisis", added the analyst from FTN Financial.
The bond market has climbed sharply.
The performance of 10-year Treasury bond fell to 3.632%, against  3.827% on Friday evening, and the 30-year bond to 4.161%, against 4.357% on the previous day.
Obama, who won on points the first televised duel
To the first debate on Friday between the two candidates for the White House has succeeded another to see who, John McCain or Barack Obama, won.
Not surprisingly, the campaign headquarters of the Republicans and the Democrats have declared their own victory in the televised duel which was watched by a third of American families.
The political analyst David Gergen believes that John McCain's performance, though admirable, was not "brilliant" enough to enable it to reverse its decline in the polls five weeks from the presidential election.
The Gallup, whose opinion poll published on Saturday gives a five points lead to Obama (49% against 44% for McCain), judges that the Democrats have pulled their own on Thursday.
According to a CBS poll, among the undecided voters, who are those that count, Obama has won 39% of respondents, while 25% of them give victory to McCain.
Obama should be able to confirm his lead on Thursday with the expected good performance of his fellow candidate, Joseph Biden, during the first and only public debate with his rival, Sarah Palin.
"It would be a mistake to underestimate her.
She has good instincts nonetheless", warned Bill Clinton this weekend.
The septuagenarian McCain has repeatedly put forward his unquestionable experience in foreign policy, while stressing the "naivety" of his opponent on these issues that were at the heart of this initial face-to-face debate.
"Senator Obama does not seem to understand that ..." he accused several times.
"I do not believe that Senator Obama has the experience and knowledge necessary to be president," he also assured.
An angle of attack hammered yesterday in Republican television advertisements.
Obama, himself, has stressed that he represented the future.
Without disassembling, he was concise and precise.
He put forward his ability to make the right decisions and to restore the image of the United States in the world.
"McCain has never understood, while Obama, if", argued this weekend, a Democratic spot criticizing the Republican of not taking the whole measure of the impact of the crisis on the "American on the streets".
"During the ninety-ten minute debate, John McCain had much to say about me, but nothing about you, Obama denounced yesterday to 20 000 people assembled for an electoral meeting in North Carolina in the pouring rain.
He did not even utter the words "middle class" or "workers". "The financial crisis clearly gives an advantage to Obama, who is considered by Americans as the most likely to save the economy on the brink of a precipice.
"The coming week could be a turning point", estimated yesterday the influential Democratic Senator Charles Schumer.
The Democratic representative Rahm Emanuel, an alumnus of the Clinton administration, compared the "good economic instincts" of Obama to those of Bill Clinton during the 1998 financial crisis.
For the Democratic candidate, the current crisis "is the final verdict of eight years of poor economic policies implemented by George Bush and supported by Senator McCain".
Reaffirming that he would still reduce the taxes of 95% of the Americans despite the turmoil on Wall Street, the senator from Illinois also reported that the achievement of the country's energy independence by promoting renewable energy was his first priority, together with the establishment of a system of health insurance.
McCain, he wanted to build a cluster of 45 nuclear plants by 2030.
Cautious, both candidates have dodged questions about the financial rescue plan of 700 billion dollars (470 billion Euro) adopted yesterday by Congress and extremely unpopular.
In Minsk, "have you noticed that there was an election, have you?"
Young people and other opponents demonstrated Sunday evening on the main square of the Belarusian capital to reject in advance the outcome of legislation.
A few hundred Belarusians gathered on Sunday evening at the closing of polling stations in the central square of Minsk to protest against the fraudulent elections.
While no results have as yet been announced, many young people came to demonstrate against the power of President Alexander Lukashenko: "the dictator, resignation."
Some confess to not having even voted: "What for, since they will do whatever they want of my voice," said a youth.
They do not believe that the regime which has made a good impression with foreign observers in order to resume discussions with the European Union is ready to take a democratic turn.
The sanctions, which include visa bans for 40 Belarusian officials and the freezing of assets, could be lifted if the elections are seen as appropriate by the observers.
They have not been according to the opposition.
"We were kept away from the electoral commissions and our observers were unable to participate in the count," lamented Yuri Potemkin, the spokesperson for the Union of Democratic Forces, a heterogeneous grouping of twelve parties.
"It's a cosmetic change, emphasizes Alexander Milinkevich, a former opposition candidate in the 2006 presidential and leader of the pro-European movement, because it's who counts the votes that is important, and here, that is the executive power.
If opposition members enter parliament, it is because they have been appointed, not elected.
But their entry into parliament could mean space on television, meetings in the regions, and proposed laws."
The opposition should therefore enter the political game because "we must open a dialogue with the European Union.
Because if our economy which is heavily in debt with Russia, enters into a crisis, and if we do not reform ourselves, we risk becoming a protectorate of Russia.
We want to be independent".
The opposition fears that the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which monitored the electoral process, does not recognize the validity of the ballot.
She stressed that the participation figures seem too high, and that the spread in voter turnout (26% of voters in Minsk) has opened the vote to all sorts of manipulations.
"Have you noticed that there was an election, have you? Queries the Social Democratic leader Alexander Kozulin, one of two political prisoners released in August this year.
There was nobody at the voting offices.
And there will be a maximum of five opposition members in parliament, those who are most convenient to those in power."
The silence of the night falls on October Square.
On television, President Lukashenko and members of the Central Election Committee welcomed their success.
The interview - Blood becomes safe again
And most importantly, it has regained the confidence of the public who had been seriously shaken by the tainted blood scandal in the 1980s and 1990s.
As we know, national reserves managed by the blood transfusion service of the Canadian Red Cross had been infected by human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and hepatitis C during the 1980s.
Faced with this tragedy and public discontent, the Government of Canada established in February 1994 a public inquiry, headed by Justice Horace Krever, which aimed at shedding light on the circumstances which led to such a tragedy and making recommendations so that such a disaster never happens again.
While Judge Krever delayed in filing his report, some provinces set up a committee aimed at planning a new blood management system in Canada.
The situation was discouraging.
At that time, there were in Europe with the outbreak of a number of cases of the human form of mad cow disease, a new variant of the Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, said he who has been holding the fort since its founding in 1998.
"And we did not know at all if the disease could be transmitted through blood.
In April 1999, the blood of people who had spent more than a month in the UK since 1980 was refused.
But a few years ago, it was demonstrated beyond any doubt that this disease is transmitted by blood.
This episode has shown that the precautionary principle that was applied made sense."
In 1999, on the market a technique appeared which was much more sensitive for HIV testing: the nucleic acid testing (NAT) allowed to detect directly in donated blood the virus itself rather than antibodies against the virus, which is what previous tests were based on.
The TAN helped to shorten the silent period, which runs between the time the person was infected and when the first viruses can be detected in the blood by our techniques, the specialist explains.
It was able to reduce that period to less than a week.
Thus, it has substantially reduced the risk that some donors were infected without knowing it and that we cannot detect them.
These improvements have helped reduce the risk of contracting AIDS through a blood transfusion.
Today, a person in 12 million is at risk of receiving HIV contaminated blood.
"In other words, this means that 12 million blood products will be distributed before someone is infected with HIV.
"Our challenge for the next decade is to maintain the safety of our products.
One never knows what disease will emerge in the system.
As recently as last year, there appeared on the island of Reunion the Chikungunya virus which, like the West Nile virus, is transmitted by an insect in the blood.
"The demand is increasing as the population ages.
The treatments being more aggressive, patients often need to refill in red blood cells or platelets.
The aging population also has consequences on the network of blood donors which includes an average of only 3% of Quebecers eligible to donate blood."
Any healthy person, aged 18 and over fits the suitability criteria to give blood every 56 days, six times a year.
On average, 14% of those offering their blood are not accepted because they have AIDS or malaria, for example, and if they have travelled in a country where malaria is rife, they would be excluded for a period of one year.
"With these 3%, we manage to maintain an inventory that meets the needs of hospitals.
The shortages are very rare.
But we must renew the members of this network of donors as they get older and cannot donate their blood.
It is difficult to convince people to donate their blood, but even more so to retain them and encourage them to become regular donors.
The umbilical cord that was once regarded as biomedical waste is full of a rich blood stem cells which can be used to treat serious diseases such as leukaemia.
" A few weeks ago, we celebrated the banking of the thousandth sample of placental cord blood and we expect to draw more than a thousand per year.
Soccer - Impact in the semi-finals
The Montreal Impact has qualified for the semi-final round of the playoffs for the first division of USL, thanks to a 3-1 victory (4-3 in total goals) at the expense of the Seattle Sounders, yesterday, during the second and decisive game of the series quarter-finals on total goals at the Saputo Stadium.
The midfielder Antonio Ribeiro scored the decisive goal in the 90th minute on Thursday.
After a first half with nothing but aimlessly going from one side to another, midfielder David Testo and Rocco Plancentino marked the net of the Montreal formation.
Roger Levesque was the only one to beat Matt Jordan for the Sounders.
Recall that during the first game of the series rounds, on Friday, the Impact suffered a 2-1 defeat at the Starfire Complex in Tukwila, a suburb of Seattle.
The Impacts will have to measure up to the Vancouver Whitecaps in the semi-final.
Saturday night at Minnesota, Thunder filled a 3-1 deficit in the return match to win 4-3, but Whitecaps nevertheless acceded to the semi-final round 5-4 on total goals.
Impact will face the Whitecaps on Friday and Sunday, but the details of the series will be confirmed today.
The Canadian number one trio is ready for the season.
The unit consisting of Alex Kovalev, Tomas Plekanec and Andrei Kostitsyn led the attack for a Canadian win of 3-2 in a shootout against the Florida Panthers last night at the Bell Centre.
Kostitsyn, the star of the first meeting, scored a goal, Plekanec has raised two aides, and Kovalev has collected a pass in this win, the Habs' fourth in six preparatory games.
Kovalev gained the victory by scoring the only goal of the shootout.
"I am not yet ready, warned the Russian.
I need another match to feel at ease."
"He tried to do too much in the first period, Guy Carbonneau noted.
But I think he appreciated the way the match ended.
He had a nice ovation."
Charest placed on the North
The prime minister does not exclude calling for an election before the end of the year
Once the general council of the Liberal Party finished, Jean Charest yesterday visited Jean-Talon, Quebec City, where the new health minister, Yves Bolduc (left) is trying to get elected in the by-election today.
"Pushing the limits of our last great northern frontier": this is the long-term ambition that Jean Charest presented with visual strength while remaining within the broad outline of the term of the General Council of the Liberal Party of Quebec, in Levis yesterday.
Behind him, during his speech, a kind of mill of images was projected.
Rotating in a loop on three huge screens, were dramatic pictures of hydroelectric dams, mining developments, of Quebec seen through "Google Maps", maps, etc.
Like the mass media during elections.
Moreover, as a point to emphasise, the Prime Minister has refused to exclude that he might call elections this fall, although he pointed out that his schedule was very busy.
The "North Plan" is the fourth part of a "vision" that the prime minister claims to have for Quebec, that of a "new economic space", which includes an agreement on labour with France, an agreement between Canada and Europe, and agreements with Ontario.
Often mentioned in the speeches of the Prime Minister recently, the opening of the North - the northern territory to the 49th parallel - had never been the object of a presentation.
The Prime Minister had however to explain why the North was "a jewel with an immense potential", but never given its due chance, investment money, or specific priority in future projects.
At most, a few avenues that could be further developed: including hydropower, the forest, but most of the entire mining sector, boosted by growth in emerging countries and the reconstruction of public infrastructure.
The North contains "nickel, zinc, copper, platinum, gold, silver, iron, titanium, and even diamonds", according to Mr. Charest's list.
This territory is twice the size of France", " it is here with us, it is in Quebec.
Not only is it with us, but it's also us", he insisted, to better show this he solicited a national founding myth.
The province has built much by its relationship with the North, he said: the gold rush in Abitibi, Quebec engineering, James's Bay.
"We, our future," he added after a theatrical pause contemplating the immense map behind him.
The North, 70% of Quebec, includes a portion of Labrador that Quebec has always claimed", said the Prime Minister at the press briefing.
"This is a traditional position that all governments have reiterated.
There is a border along which there has been no agreement for too long a time and, when the opportunity arises, I reiterate this position there on behalf of government", he said.
Moreover, "with the climate changes, we must rethink our vision of the North", he declared, referring to the Northwest Passage, to be held open throughout the year due to melting ice.
In this new geopolitical context, the Prime Minister considers occupying the territory a duty.
And the inhabitants of the territory, First Nations and Inuit?
The Prime Minister said that the Quebec government would be very careful with regard to them and that the project would benefit them, especially to young people.
An inter-ministerial committee chaired by Benoit Pelletier, in which Julie Boulet (Transport and Natural Resources) has an important place, started work.
The Prime Minister has not excluded holding a big meeting, "not necessarily a summit," but a time when "we give ourselves a common vision."
Northern development would also be consistent with the principles of sustainable development.
The North will be "coordinated, orderly and respectful of the environment", he promised.
Jean Charest described this "vision" as continuous with that of the Liberal prime minister who preceded him.
"As the Liberals who have preceded us, we have alternatively thought to transform challenges into opportunities for growth and development."
This has been one of the recurring themes of the weekend, which was launched Friday by a grand cocktail party to mark the 50th anniversary of the arrival of Jean Lesage at the head of the party.
"From Godbout, who created Hydro-Quebec, to Lesage who made the Quiet Revolution and the nationalization of hydroelectricity, to Bourassa who made James Bay, our party has managed to forge the future", declared Jean Charest.
In the press briefing, he invoked another reference, conservative as this, the program "Roads to the North" by John Diefenbaker, prime minister from 1957 to 1963.
Addressing the proposed hydroelectric dam of Eastmain1a-Ruper, Mr. Charest has stressed that it should become operational for 2012.
"Between us, but I plan to be there," he told activists, eliciting from them a huge round of applause.
Indeed, the Prime Minister, who said in April that there would be no election in 2008 and probably not even in 2009, has not ruled out the possibility of calling an election this fall, it is what the law permits him.
He stressed that his schedule is filled up, notably by a mission to the Federation Council in China and a Quebec-New York summit.
The weekend's General Council provided the Liberal leader a platform containing the nationalists resolutions, notably some "constitutional aspirations" which passed through like a breeze: the PLQ in particular calls for the recognition of the "specificity of Quebec in the Constitution.
It also wants Quebec to be able to appoint members of the Canadian Radio and Telecommunications and that they have a veto over decisions taken in Quebec.
On the opposition side, the outline of the Northern Plan was received with scepticism.
The PQ leader, Pauline Marois, has brought up again the policy development of Northern Quebec that the Landry government had launched in 2001.
According to her, the Liberal government, when it came into power in 2003, had waived the application.
The ADQ has supported the adoption of the North Plan by the government.
Letters - A country dishonoured
It is Mr. Vic Toews, former Minister of Justice" (oh irony) in the Harper cabinet, which allowed himself last summer to say that Louise Arbor was a "shame" for Canada.
Thus casting opprobrium on the woman who led a struggle for justice and who deserves our admiration also speaks volumes about the entourage of the Prime Minister and on Stephen Harper himself.
Here, we have before us a government that is the only one among all western countries involved, not to have repatriated its nationals locked in the concentration camp at Guantanamo.
A government which ignores the fact that Omar Khadr was a young teenager at the time of the crimes for which he is charged.
The only government that, despite the fact that Canada has signed the Geneva Convention, has gone back on his word and let languish in inhumane conditions a child soldier.
The only one that relies on a travesty of justice to assess the guilt of the accused.
Remember, for the record, that UNICEF, Amnesty International and the Canadian Bar Association, among others, pleaded for the repatriation of Omar Khadr so that he receives a fair trial in Canada.
This same government turns a blind eye to torture: little does it matter to it that a young adult is now psychologically destroyed, doubtlessly forever, after so many years of abuses.
One does not yet realise, but we are witnessing right now a creeping erosion of our rights, of our liberties, and our "democracy", this word that Harper continues to brandish and that sounds hollow in his mouth.
Now comes the time when there are no more morals: one can bully, torture, arbitrarily detain a Canadian citizen at the whim of the head of a minor government so far (so what will happen so after 14 October ...).
A number of voters believe they will find salvation in a party that advocates Virtue, Law, and Order: they do not see that this government has abandoned what was the reputation and dignity of our country.
Shame, Mr. Toews, it is here, in this renunciation, and not elsewhere.
Free opinion - The Orwellian speech Barrick Gold
In its September 17 edition, Le Devoir published a letter from Mr Patrick J. Garver, executive vice-president of the Canadian mining Barrick Gold. 
Following an Orwellian logic, it states that the largest gold company in the world brought a defamation suit of six million against three authors and a small publishing house without a penny in order to launch a "transparent public debate".
While it is true that the judges are independent and impartial, especially in the cases of defamation, they do not seek to find the truth but to follow the law.
Not surprisingly, this difference is completely obscured by Mr. Garver.
Since, for Barrick Gold, the best way for it to conduct a public debate is to ruin anyone who dares to support a contrary position?
Regardless of the trial's outcome, the authors and publisher of the book Black Canada will have to spend considerable sums to prepare their defence and fight, with very unequal resources, against an army of lawyers supported by the almost bottomless pockets of mining.
The tactics, in these unequal struggles, is often to ruin the defendants with the aim of imposing a settlement that silences the opposition and in addition frightens anyone who dares to think of reopening the issue.
If Barrick Gold really wanted a public debate, it is before the public it should have presented its vision of the facts.
Contrary to what is done in several countries where Barrick Gold operates, the debates in Canada are normally through the exchange of ideas and not of baton thumps.
Thus, it would have been sufficient for the mining company to open its books, records and establish a real debate, through newspapers, the media, publications and funding independent research teams that could shed light on the issue.
But Barrick Gold appears not to trust public opinion and rejected out of hand petitions and letters of support to the authors of Black Canada.
Perhaps Mr Garver could explain how he can both call for a "public" debate while at the same time disregarding the views of that very same audience?
In the world of the Vice-President, it seems that this word refers only to high priced lawyers and not to all Canadians: that is a rather narrow view of the concept.
In a democracy, even the critics have the right to speak.
What Barrick Gold does not - or will not - understand is that the public which supports the writers and publishers of Black Canada, does so primarily because it rejects its brutal mining methods.
The public is ready to hear Barrick and judge, but on the basis of a civilized exchange of arguments, and not as part of what many perceive as a prosecution-gag (continuing the "public debate", Barrick Gold has just moreover filed a notice against the authors of Black Canada demanding them to cease their use of the term ...).
Beyond the Mr. Garver's surreal speech, the continuation of Barrick Gold is a direct attack against the freedom of academic research and the quest for truth, essential for any democratic society.
It denies, collectively, the right to quote from credible sources and debate on the facts and interpretations, which represents the very basis of intellectual work.
If it is impossible to study and discuss subjects unpalatable to the wealthy corporations in the world in a country like Canada, under penalty of repeated prosecution, who can do it?
If Barrick Gold really wanted an open and transparent debate, it could do so by following the scientific standards used by the authors of Black Canada.
She has a right to reply.
The academia, to which we belong, has long been managing the debates and disagreements, and resolving conflicts.
Barrick Gold enormous pursuit clearly shows that, contrary to its claims, it did not want a transparent debate.
It is a loss for academia, as well as for public debate in Canada, and it is time that governments put in place devices that limit such frivolous practices.
Operation Save Wall Street - Democrats and Republicans agree
The Bush administration and leaders of Congress, both the Republicans and the Democrats, finally reached an agreement yesterday on the largest economic rescue plan since the Great Depression of the 30s.
The new version of the 700 billion U.S. dollars plan to curb the financial crisis that rocked Wall Street for months has yet to be ratified by both houses of Congress.
In particular, it foresees: a better control by elected officials of its implementation, new mechanisms to ensure repayment of public money committed, new provisions to limit the number of houses seized for non-payment, as well as a right to look at the salaries paid to executives of companies rescued.
U.S. Treasury Secretary, Henry Paulson, the chairman of the House of Representatives, Nancy Pelosi, and Republican representative to the negotiating table, Senator Judd Gregg, announced the good news a few minutes after midnight yesterday, following a marathon two-day negotiations.
"We have made great progress towards an agreement that will be effective on the market," declared the representative of the Bush administration, Henry Paulson.
"Everything has been done in order to shield the real economy and ordinary Americans from the current crisis on Wall Street," said the Democrat.
"This is the fundamental point: if we do not do this, the trauma, chaos and disruption on the daily lives of Americans will be immense," declared Republican Judd Gregg.
The negotiations turned into a sprint in the final hours for fear of the effect another failure would cause on the mood of investors.
The deadline we had given was the opening of the markets this morning.
Associated late to the negotiations, the two American presidential candidates were rather supportive to the agreement, without failing, however, to express their dissatisfaction that one is compelled to reach this extreme.
Democratic Senator Barack Obama has asked for the addition of certain provisions in the agreement, particularly those that enable owners to keep their homes and ones on the wages of leaders of enterprises rescued by the state.
"When you ask taxpayers to take extraordinary measures because of the irresponsibility of some, there is nothing to congratulate.
But these measures are necessary, "he commented on the airwaves of American television.
Asked by another channel whether he will vote for the proposed plan, his Republican opponent, John McCain, responded: "I would like to see the details, but I hope so."
"The outline that I read [show] that this is something we will all have to digest and with which we can go forwards.
The option of doing nothing is simply not acceptable", he said.
The plan of 700 billion aims to buy with the money of taxpayers bad debts, assets at risk and unsellable U.S. financial institutions.
It comes after a 14 month crisis triggered by the bursting of a housing bubble which first led to the collapse of risky mortgages (subprime) before spreading to other forms of more widespread credit titles (PCAA) and leading to a freeze of liquidity and the stampede of banks and financial institutions.
This is a group of elected Republicans who had derailed the first draft agreement last week.
It is believed to have come out of this impasse ever since the Democrats have agreed that certain "toxic" shares of companies in difficulty are only insured by the government, rather than purchased.
To round off the corners for everyone in Congress, a provision has also been added stipulating that if the government had to take losses for five years because of this program, it could introduce new taxes to help recover its investment.
The new plan provides for the payment of an initial tranche of 250 billion to which could be added another 100 billion if the President deems necessary.
The other payment of 350 billion has to be endorsed by another vote of Congress.
In exchange for its support, Washington will get stakes in the companies it has rescued, earning dividends in case of profits and that it can sell when the storm has passed.
The federal government will be able to delay the proceedings on the seizure of housing attached to mortgage loans under this plan and to set limits to compensation and severance packages paid to executives of companies affected.
The architects of the plan would like to see it put to the vote in the House of Representatives today, and the Senate on Wednesday.
Despite all their efforts, it is not yet certain that their plan will get the green light.
Voices have indeed continued to be raised against the project yesterday, both in the Republican camp as well as by the Democrats.
"Obviously, Washington does not hear you," said while addressing his constituents the Republican Scott Garrett, a member of the Finance Committee of the House.
"Yes, we have a serious financial problem.
Yes, solutions do exist.
But not ones that take advantage of taxpayers".
Leader of a small group in Congress dubbed "the Sceptics' Caucus", the Democratic representative Brad Sherman presents things differently, but reaches the same conclusion.
"Four hundred prominent professors of economics, including three Nobel Prize winners, have written to tell us: one asks the Congress not to hurry and to examine carefully the way forward", he said yesterday.
At the same time, Europe has once again demonstrated the global nature of the crisis.
After an emergency meeting, the three Benelux countries have announced the partial nationalization of the banking group Fortis for 11.2 billion Euro (16.3 billion U.S.).
The intervention of the governments of Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg had been made necessary after the French bank BNP Paribas has indicated that it would renounce acquiring its rival in full bankruptcy since it has lost 2 billion Euro (2.9 billion U.S.) in the risky mortgages crisis in the United States.
Fortis employs 85 000 people and is part of the twenty largest European banks and the ten largest insurers.
"This is not lost money, declared yesterday the Dutch Finance Minister, Wouter Bos.
In return, we get the right to vote with the bank and some influence.
It's just something that investors and households appreciate now that uncertain times are ahead."
Meanwhile, across the Channel, the British government seems about to nationalize another bank hit by the financial crisis.
According to the English press, the government to endorse all outstanding loans in the bank Bradford and Bingley, including more than 41 billion (75.5 billion U.S.) in real estate loans.
The Spanish bank Santander has indicated yesterday that it will buy branches and customer accounts of the British bank.
The Bradford and Bingley would be the second bank, after the Northern Rock, the British government will have to nationalize since the beginning of this financial crisis.
Paul Newman (1925-2008) - Death of an true icon
His beauty and his blue eyes were for a long time his main asset, some would say his weakness.
Did he free himself from this narcissistic mirror, this American actor with the charming smile?
Yes and no.
His modesty, his sensitivity and an abundance of talent would have also distanced him from the power register which gives birth to real sacred monsters.
But what a great runner till the end!
Paul Newman, who died on Friday, aged 83, as a result of lung cancer at his ranch in Connecticut, remains one of the last icons of American cinema from the years of splendour.
Less monumental than Brando, who he resembled and was a long time sort of rival on the screen, more cautious in his game, certainly more fragile, but also an apostle of freedom and the breaking of dramatic conventions.
Mixed blood children are often magnificent.
He was born in Ohio in 1925, from a Jewish German father and a mother of Hungarian origin.
From these European roots were born the glorious faces of the American dream.
Without an excessive ego, the ultimate mark of quality.
Because in him is portrayed a country-loving self made man, a combatant in the Pacific War, wounded in combat, who in the early 50's studied drama at Yale and attended the Actor's Studio in New York, before triumphing at the theatre, on television, soon after at the cinema.
The same man who fought for civil rights was also the driver who ranked second in the 24 Hours Le Mans in 1979, doubled as a sex symbol, albeit a member of a model couple formed since 1958 with the actress Joanne Woodward.
Also disappearing with him are the shadowy areas of this secret star, discreet, committed, allergic to the scandals of show business, which have definitely not penetrated the enigma.
An honest man in the noblest sense of the word.
The disappearance of Paul Newman brought vertigo to moviegoers this weekend, while his major roles collide on the black screen of memories.
More than half a century of a seventh American art which is constantly changing scrolls through him.
Rushing back into memory are the charming cowboy in Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid (1969), the young man rejecting his sensual wife (Elizabeth Taylor) in The Cat on a Hot Tin Roof adapted from Tennessee Williams in 1958.
Closer to us (1990), one evokes his sensitive Mr. Bridge, disturbed in his old age by a marriage that did not fulfil all its promises.
So many other Paul Newman have passed into history.
The boxer Rocky Graziano, delinquent, tormented, violent, unforgettable in Somebody Up There Likes Me (marked by hatred), Robert Wise, a role destined for James Dean, taken after his death, which really launched Newman in 1956.
This friendly crook in the most brilliant The Sting, Oscar for best film in 1973.
Billiard player bitter and vengeful in the magnificent The Hustler by Robert Rossen (1961), he took up again the character on his return in The Color of Money by Martin Scorsese, who in 1987 won him his only Oscar with nine nominations.
This face throughout the ages, it was him.
Him again.
Eras jostle by through his journey.
Young people know him mainly through the cult of Slap Shot by George Roy Hill (1977), as Reggie Dunlop, the coach of an unorthodox ice hockey team.
His fans met him again in 1994 in The Hudsucker Proxy by the Coen brothers.
With a last role as the godfather of an Irish mafia in Road to Perdition by Sam Mendes in 2003, the loop was closed.
Unlike several legends of the cinema who have dropped the trade early, Newman has remained in the saddle for a long time, while denouncing Hollywood, its gold, its splendour and its concessions.
The French filmmaker Bertrand Tavernier considered him, not without humour, "as a living challenge to "underplaying "judging his performances too supported.
The profession has not always been easy with the beautiful Paul Newman to whom roles came for a long time easy as pie.
He played though less often, in his first young roles, marginal characters: neurotics, alcoholics, bastards or desperate men, with his perfect traits reflecting the excesses and the rebellious.
As director, Newman revealed a little known aspect of his modest real sensitivity.
His Rachel, Rachel, in 1968 (based on the novel by the Canadian Margaret Laurence), with his wife Joanne Woodward in the lead role, drew a fine female portrait of melancholy.
He lost his son Scott to an overdose to whom he dedicated his film Harry and Son in 1984, out of decency and sadness.
Among the rain of tributes that fell on Newman yesterday, his great friend and former companion in arms Robert Redford (they played together in The Sting, and Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid) said, very saddened: "His presence has made my life and this country better."
Generosity, love of life are the features of the vibrant actor just disappeared.
Beyond his legendary career, also erased was a great activist for civil rights, ecology, the independent cinema, a protestor against the excesses of Hollywood.
We saw his mug shots on a lot of jars of salad dressing, sauces, biscuits, and other foodstuffs, judging the process fairly tasteless, although a gag at the outset.
Profits from these sales were nevertheless paid to his Foundation for children in difficulty.
Newman, rather than sit on his myth, has remained committed until the end.
He left his five daughters a letter containing these words: "Always and to the end, your father has been incredibly grateful for his good fortune.
It has been a privilege being there."
And a privilege for us to have followed the trail of such a lucid and generous American artist.
A model citizen, in sum and in addition.
What has been produced in the invoice factory of Zuschlag and his companions?
The politician and his companions have been accused of taking part continuously and on a professional basis in a fraud causing significant damages, as well as in other criminal activities, including forgery.
According to the prosecution, they used the awarded tender funds for their own purposes and often certified the performance of tasks by fake invoices.
The state and municipal funds - HUF 65 million in total - have been shared between the organization Fiatal Baloldal and other people.
The methodology - which has been published by the investigating authority, too - was to use bills of costs with unreal performance in order to access the awarded tender funds. This way the associations never met the agreed undertakings.
Most of the invoices were false according to the indictment.
According to the testimony of the latter one, he was ordered to select pensions and restaurants.
He asked for the bill of his consumption at the specific place, and based on this invoice they prepared the invoices to be submitted to the tenders called for by institutes such as the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Labour and the Municipality of Budapest.
One of Lados's "study visits" was to a beer-house.
However, as the director of the company states, the establishment does not even have the capacity to provide seats for such a great number of people.
The bill was issued for the accommodation of 130 guests in a 3-room pension in Badacsonytomaj, which had the maximum capacity of providing place for ten people.
"The name and tax number of our company were placed incorrectly on the stamp."
And he added that, moreover, the invoice had been issued for the accommodation of 100 persons in spite of the fact that they had only 11 rooms, which did not have the capacity for so many people.
In addition, the bill included catering as well, though their restaurant had not been in function for long.
The enthusiastic bill-makers were not aware of the fact that the Budapest-based travel agency that they selected organizes foreign tours only, thus the indicated Hungarian transport - as a service category - did not coincide with the invoice issuing practice of the firm.
Furthermore, - as it has been discovered during the investigation - they also indicated VAT on the document in spite of the fact that the transport activities to foreign countries other than the European Union were exempt from VAT.
The invoice-issuers made another mistake when they indicated road transport of goods as performed activity - turned out during the prosecution procedure. This activity was not included in the services carried out by the firm originally dealing with investment consulting.
Issued consciously
The other group of the invoice-issuers consists of those having been aware of issuing fictitious invoices.
There was no cash flow either since the issued invoices were voided later, but the organizations forgot to indicate this in their documents.
The next category of the firms having issued the invoices are those being linked to the defendants.
In October, November and December the company issued several invoices for selling computing devices, in a value of approximately HUF 18 million.
According to the data of the investigation, these bills were purchased by the Kiskunhalas-based Cash Investment Kft., which has been under liquidation since 14 September 2005.
However, neither of these firms operated actually, which the defendant explained by lack of orders.
According to the prosecution, 10% of the amount indicated on the invoices and the amount of VAT was the share of Kubatov.
He even had Szi-Beri Bt. issue fictitious invoices which were used for the tender of Biztos Pont.
They were awarded HUF 500.000 each, but the amounts were not used for the purposes indicated in the tender.
In order to avoid the fraud being disclosed, they submitted the 5 fictitious invoices issued by Works Team Kft. to TMA.
Some defendants are likely to confess about the process of the invoice production - as they did at the attorney's department, too.
His testimony so far is not very detailed, and though he did promise to provide information on all areas of the case, he has not done so.
The question is whether he is interested in fulfilling his promise or - in return for the reimbursement of most of the damage (50 million forints), the socialists have struck a deal with him and Zusi would rather take the rap.
Or he might just have taken offence since his requests regarding the alleviation of the conditions of his detention - in other words his being placed under house arrest - kept falling upon deaf ears.
While those who have committed the much more damaging and non-compensated economic criminal activities can walk freely in the streets or wait at their home for the end of the legal procedure being conducted against them, he does not have the opportunity to do that.
The psychology of overbidding: what do we spend more money on?
At an auction, the customers tend to spend more money on a product and overvalue it.
The neurologist and economist researchers of New York University managed to disclose the neurological-economic basis of this well-known - and seemingly irrational - behaviour.
According to their study published in the periodical called Science, people don not want to lose in a competition like the auction of eBay, thus they rather pay an unrealistically high price.
The research aimed at mapping the neurological scheme of this "game" with the help of experimental auctions.
A group of volunteers was playing lottery and another group was taking part in an auction. In the meanwhile, the active brain area of the experimental persons was being examined by functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI).
The participants had the chance to gain money in both games but during the auction game - in which overbidding the other person plays a significant role - the complex called striatum, situated under the cerebral cortex, was coming into operation upon the person's defeat.
This area of the brain - besides its other functions - plays role in the "self-rewarding" mechanism of the nervous system.
Thus, according to the researchers, raising the price can be explained by the avoidance of the violent reaction of the striatum.
In order to justify their theory, the economist members of the research group conducted financial researches as well.
In this research three groups were making bids against someone, under various conditions.
The control group was simply informed about the real value of the certain product and they made their bids.
Another group got a promise of receiving an extra amount of 15 dollars in case of their victory.
The third group was provided by 15 dollars before the auction but in case of defeat, they would lose this amount.
As it seems, the only difference between the two groups was the emphasis of victory or defeat.
Proving the hypothesis of the neurologists, the members of the group "playing for not losing money" were ready to make higher bids than the control group or the group "playing for gaining money".
"These results cannot be deduced from any existing economic theory.
The earlier theories explained the phenomenon experienced at auctions by the delight of victory and risk avoidance.
It was the neurological imaging methods that helped us to dissolve the contradiction between the two theories in a way that we got to a third explanation at the end", said Andrew Schotter, professor of the economic faculty of New York University.
Hepatitis: when shall we turn to a doctor?
Approximately half a billion people suffer from chronic hepatitis B or C infection. In Hungary, the chronic liver disease is mentioned among the main causes of mortality.
Although the number of the Hungarians being infected by hepatitis can reach 100 000, only 7 000 of them are treated properly. The reason is that many times people are not aware of being infected.
Hepatitis is a collective name of different infectious liver diseases caused by various viruses.
Even though there are similarities in the symptoms, e.g. liver inflammation or jaundice, the nature of the pathogens and the caused diseases are different.
Hepatitis viruses are transmitted in two main forms, depending on the type of the pathogens: hepatitis A and E travel through the alimentary tract (for example with infected food or water), hepatitis B, C, D and the other viruses are carried in blood and body fluids (semen, vaginal mucus, saliva).
Those who travel a lot should protect themselves against viruses A and B by vaccination; but there is no vaccination against virus C.
The symptoms of hepatitis A appear 2 or 3 weeks after having eaten the contaminated food; they are accompanied by general malaise, weakness, abdominal problems, nausea.
The next sign is jaundice appearing on the skin and in the white part of the eye. Additional symptoms are: light coloured faeces, dark urine. Recovery can take 2 or 3 weeks.
Annually and worldwide, 1 million people die of the more serious type of the disease, hepatitis B, causing liver cancer and cirrhosis of the liver.
The main reason is that only an estimated one-tenth of the infected receive medical treatment.
Hepatitis C can also lead to serious problems: it may result in cirrhosis of the liver or liver cancer if it is not treated.
Most of the infected are not even aware of their illness since the pathogens destroy the liver cells over a long time, thus in many cases the first symptoms emerge 20 or 30 years later.
From this point, early prevention, especially regular screening tests have fundamental significance.
In three groups this illness is experienced highly above the average: among people having received blood transfusion before 1991, drug-addicts and those having tattoos.
Currently, the number of people infected by chronic hepatitis C is around 200 million worldwide.
Since the disease can be recognized by routine laboratory testing, it is worth seeing a doctor if any symptoms of unknown origin are observed.
In case of early recognition, the disease can be cured, the virus can be destroyed, thus infectivity ceases and the induction of cancer can be prevented.
30 September is the World Hepatitis Day, which was first organized in 2004 by the organizations representing the infected.
It aims to call attention to chronic liver inflammation caused by viruses, the causes of its induction and the significance of early recognition.
Does it hurt less if you believe in God?
According to a recent research, religious belief can be used as a kind of pain killer, which could have eased the death of catholic martyrs as well.
"The scientists of Oxford University carried out an interesting experiment about the influence of believing in God on the degree of people's sensitivity to pain", says the British Telegraph.
Within the framework of this highly bizarre experiment 12 catholic believers and 12 atheists were given electric shock. In the meanwhile, all of them were studying a painting of Virgin Mary.
The results showed that the practising Catholics were able to exclude most of their pain.
Due to the brain scanning technology, it turned out that the Catholics were able to activate the part of their brain responsible for pain regulation.
This was the first experiment in a series of research, which besides academicians includes scientists, philosophers, theologians from different departments of the university.
To be exact, a sparking object providing electric shock was attached to the left hand of the volunteers in the experiment.
The researchers asked the experimental subjects to thoroughly study two paintings; Sassoferrato's Virgin Mary from the 17th century and Leonardo da Vinci's Lady with an Ermine from the 15th century.
The researchers expected that - seeing the picture of Virgin Mary - the believers would enter a sort of religious state of mind. Da Vinci's painting was selected because of its similar style and calming nature.
The volunteers spent half an hour in an MRI scanner and received 20 electric shocks within four consecutive time periods, while they were looking at one of the above-mentioned paintings.
The Catholics described the situation as "safe" and "protecting" which made them "relaxed and peaceful".
12 percent less pain was reported while the experimental subjects were studying the religious painting - comparing to the feeling they experienced by the sight of Leonardo's work.
According to psychologist Miguel Farias, taking part in the experiment himself, similar effect could be produced by any kind of painting having strong emotional influence on the certain person, even among atheists. It is all about finding the right picture.
"We should find a photo of someone who they feel very positive about, like a mother or a father", says the psychologist.
Anglican bishop Tom Wright welcomed the findings of the research.
"Practising faith should change and often does change our personality", he added.
After these great results the question now is how Leonardo's or another highly appreciated painter's picture of Madonna would influence the believers' pain regulation?
Would the sight of a quality Virgin Mary bring even better results?
You are what you share
On its 10th birthday Google can admit: it is there in the people's pocket, as well as above their head, in the sky. Google knows where people go on vacation, what kind of medical consultations they visit and what they are interested in.
In spite of all that, Eric Schmidt, a key person of the company is still not satisfied.
On the other hand, the sceptics who bring it in parallel with Orwell's dreadful fantasy just cannot see the essence of web 2.0.
Eric Schmidt recently stated to the Financial Times that the main goal of Google was to collect further personal information about the users. It is necessary to maintain the Google founders' original aim, namely: "to create a system for all the information of the world", he added.
According to the Google-chief, the company - after having subverted the entire world in the last 10 years - is still at the beginning of the road towards the ability of treating all the information.
Answering the question concerning his plans for the next 5 years he said he would like to ensure that Google will be able to reply to questions like "What shall I do tomorrow?" , or "What type of jobs suit me best?". However, software cannot give the right answers to these seemingly simple questions since the available amount of user information is not sufficient.
Not all Internet users are aware of the fact that the terms searched by them are recorded, as well as the IP address used for the search and the pages visited by them afterwards.
Using the 2-year-old Personalized Search function, users can store their own surfing histories, they can review what they were looking for, what kind of links they clicked on before. In the long term, it can provide the users with personalized findings. The function called Recommendations will be based on the same logic: it will be able to offer us products and services by the help of the preferences provided and recorded earlier.
"What happens if my personal data are used against me, if it is discovered what I do?", ask some of the users worrying about the information-monopoly of Google.
It is usually the degree of the potential power represented by the company that generates counter reaction in the users, not sense of guilt, fear of punishment, desire for freedom or rebellion against authority.
Nevertheless, it has been confirmed that all the searched terms are recorded and - where appropriate - those can even be transferred to third parties. In such cases nothing protects the privacy of the Internet users.
The best example for that is the concerted action against some Brazilian paedophiles; Google transferred the Brazilian government some information from one of its social networking pages, called Orkut. The data supplied helped the government identify several paedophiles.
The users who were worrying about the invasion of personal privacy could relief back in May when Google - in association with the EEF electronic legal aid organization - successfully proved his right against the FBI: the court confirmed that under no point of the Constitution can the FBI oblige Google to provide any kind of, secretly asked information.
(Nevertheless, - referring to the confirmation of the child protection law approved several years earlier - the federal government did manage to get access to 50 000 web addresses and 1 000 search terms. However, it could not acquire the individual users' search lists, nor a complete list of web pages and keywords covering a two-month period.)
As it seems, there are controversial opinions on Google. It is attacked by those who fear of giving out their personal data because they feel that their intimate sphere and private life would be diminished by using the services provided by Google. Thus, they rather represent the resisting group of conservative multinational companies.
Meanwhile, the American geek culture and its wild oat including enthusiastic computer fans, activists, users in several countries consider them as the next generation of large companies, a "cool corporation", in contrast to their opinion about their rival, Microsoft, the creator of Windows and the conqueror of the world, in spite of the fact that the two companies fight for the same goal.
One of the reasons for it can be that Google - unlike Microsoft - does not require identification name from its users and money for the applications. Furthermore, the open and continuously updated source code and programme package - comparing to the official software giant's practice - looks more available, youthful and cool.
Or maybe it is because of the fact that geeks can precisely see the problematic relation between personal privilege and Internet, which is in accordance with the most frequently discussed key expression of the last few years, web 2.0.
Web 2.0 is about a collaboration to intentionally leave traces about our computer activities and exploit the available communication channels. Though the degree of this act can be various, depending on the user, the main point is the same: we show ourselves to the world.
An average young person can open a profile on various public pages such as Facebook or Xanga, they can even link them to other services like Twitter or the music list maker last.fm, then those can be connected to a tracking system such as FriendFeed or Blip.fm. In addition, users can create blogs that automatically update the recently uploaded photo galleries stored on Flickr or Picasa.
We can read about several stories like this: the girl - checking the plenty of photos uploaded in the morning by common friends - finds out where her untrustworthy boyfriend spent his previous night. Or another one: an employee might lose his job just because he shared his opinion on the management in his blog. One consequence can be definitely drawn: the definition of privacy has been revalued.
If someone lives an online life, they are what they show of themselves - this is the basic concept behind the behaviour of today's youth.
If someone has something to keep secret or if someone simply just wants to bypass Google's monopoly, it is also possible (e.g. using Scroogle, which also applies the Google search system but purposely leaves no trace behind).
The number of those intentionally not registering to social networking sites is significant. This way they can avoid being discovered, Google's online applications from text editor to image manager and newsreader can be replaced by alternative versions that are not in connection with huge server parks and not trying to create our best profile ever.
General public is looking forward to seeing what is still hidden by Google.
The company - with its value of USD 156 billion - is worth more than IBM (USD 140 billion), Intel (USD 124 billion) or Coca-Cola (USD 110 billion). In addition, the advertising spaces of AdWords/AdSense threaten the income of advertising agencies and services introduced at ever-increasing speed cause Microsoft and several other software developers a serious headache.
Nevertheless, critics can also find the disturbing counterpoints: the management completely rejected the employees' objection, which burst out because the fee of the company's kindergarten had been doubled. The daily canteen - the use of which had been allowed at any time and even several times - was also considered to be too costly by the management. However, all these are nothing compared to the fact that Google bowed before the Chinese government in 2006 and - according to their agreement - the company has filtered all search results that offend good taste or the interests of the Chinese regime.
One of the internal regulations of the company says that new services shall not be advertised in advance, only when they are ready to be used. Still, the coming months and years will definitely have huge influence on the world: some people predict that the book and magazine scanning and archiving project of Google will soon reach such proportions that it will have to face the Supreme Court. Others have fear of the Health system, which has the capacity to build a complete health profile about us, including our previous medical findings, physicians and problems.
Finally, the fact that Google is building up a genetic database can provide a perfect base material for the sci-fi writers of the next generation. Cory Doctorow's popular novel, Scroogled applies Orwell's style in the description of a future where a person can be pictured terrifyingly well only by using Google data.
The two young people admitted having committed the mentioned act, they are currently accused of aiding and abetting.
The two minors - 2 girls, according to the information provided by MTI - answer to the charges at large.
Aiding and abetting can be punished by a maximum of 5 years of imprisonment.
He is accused of having committed premeditated homicide against several people, for the sake of gain.
During the investigation, it turned out that the 23-year-old young man owed significant amount of money to a 53-year-old man.
According to the information of MTI, the young man was determined to commit the crime, which is evidenced by the fact that he had previously hidden a gun at the premise for this purpose.
The police is examining the gun and the conditions of the crime with the assistance of experts.
The Warsaw Stock Exchange submitted a bid to buy the Prague Stock Exchange
The Warsaw Stock Exchange offered EUR 200 million - approximately 5 billion Czech korunas - for the 100% ownership of the Prague shares.
Ludwik Sobolewski, President of the Warsaw Stock Exchange confirmed the bid that has been taken by the Polish, in spite of the fact that the Czech had previously excluded the Warsaw Stock Exchange from the group of potential owners of the Prague shares.
The reason for this is that the Warsaw Stock Exchange is state-owned.
99 percent of the stakes are in the ownership of the Polish government, which plans to sell 60 percent of the papers during the next few months.
According to E15, the Czech economic daily newspaper, the Polish have submitted the best bid for the Prague shares.
Petr Koblic, director of the Prague Stock Exchange declared last week that - among those being interested in the Prague shares - the worst option was the Warsaw Stock Exchange, the selection of which would result the cessation of the Prague bourse.
The value of the Prague Stock Exchange stakes is estimated 5 to 10 billion korunas by the market experts.
On the basis of the agreement among the shareholders, 90 percent of the stakes could be purchased.
About the financial crisis from the view of European newspapers
The leading European newspapers were describing the ever-deepening international financial crisis as "a second September 11th" in their Tuesday comments.
The global financial catastrophe is due to the American president - says the Rome-based La Repubblica blamingly - the president was not even able to have his own party back up the hastily prepared bill which is supposed to find the way out of the depressing situation...
It is not so much a new Pearl Harbor, as Warren Buffett billionaire investor described it, but rather a second September 11th.
Some of the Madrid press also blame Washington for the situation.
In the view of El Mundo, the collapse of the world economy is due to the lack of political leadership in the U.S.
The American financial system is at a growing risk of collapse, which will make the whole world suffer.
Although Bush's plan was not perfect, now - pursuant to the congressional vote - the threatening risk is if Washington does not provide any political tool to handle the crisis.
World economy is hanging in the air - just at the time when one of the biggest transformation of capitalism is taking place.
"The threat cannot be ignored any more", marks the Tages-Anzeiger from Geneva.
Some countries are still able to provide a life-belt for the weakened financial institutions and can save those from bankruptcy by the money of the taxpayers.
However, if further banks collapse, as in a domino-effect, neither the funds nor new improvisations will help.
What we need in the long term is that the members of the European Union shall determine themselves to overcome their own national selfishness and centralize the control over the divided financial markets.
"The aid distributed just on Monday among the ailing financial institutes was more than 100 billion euros", recalls the Vienna-based Der Standard, adding that the worries are getting to point out that, just like the Americans, the European taxpayers will also have to dig down into their pockets in order to remedy the situation.
The EU has not paid special attention to the crisis so far, which is now sweeping through the old continent as a tsunami.
It is not expected from the "savers" to wave 100 billion euros in their hands right at the beginning but it would be important to determine the situations when the taxpayers' money is necessary to be used in order to prevent a more serious damage.
Intelligent car imitates the flying of a bumblebee
What could be a better way to advance the development of crash prevention technology than to mimic nature's obstacle detectors?
Let's examine bees, for instance!
In a surprising project that is in progress at CEATEC in Japan, the bumblebee has given engineers at Nissan a strategic hint at how to design the next generation of crash-avoidance systems.
Based on joint research with the University of Tokyo, Nissan has built the BR23C-type Biomimatic Car Robot Drive. It is a robotic micro-car that recreates bee characteristics with the goal of producing a system that prevents collisions altogether.
"In flight, each bee creates its own oval-shaped personal space, which in fact closely resembles our safety shield", said Kazuhhiro Doi brand director of technology, PR, research and development.
The compound structure of bees' eye plays a significant role, which makes the bees able to see in all directions, at an angle of 300 degrees.
In order to recreate the function of a compound eye, the engineers came up with the idea of a laser range finder.
This device detects obstacles up to two meters away within a 180-degree radius in front of the BR23C, calculates the distance to them and sends a signal to an on-board microprocessor, which is instantly translated into collision avoidance.
It takes just a fraction of a second to detect an obstacle, and the car robot instantly changes direction mimicking the movements of a bee by turning its wheels at the angle needed to avoid a collision.
One of the main differences from any current system is that the avoidance manoeuvre is totally instinctive.
"If that was not so, then the car robot would not be able to react fast enough to avoid obstacles," says Toshiyuki Andoh, manager of Nissan's Mobility Laboratory and principal engineer of the robot car project.
It must react instinctively and instantly because this technology corresponds to the most vulnerable and inner-most layer of the safety shield, a layer in which a crash is currently considered unavoidable.
The whole process must mirror what a bee does to avoid other bees.
It must happen within the blink of an eye.
But unlike a bee, it cannot deviate upwards or downwards or diagonally, only in two dimensions and only in the direction that the wheels can turn.
So in place of the infinite number of ways a bumblebee can avoid other bees, here only the rotation function, the acceleration and the deceleration have been applied as available means of collision avoidance.
BR23C uses lithium-polymer accumulators that are lighter and have a higher energy density, which - compared to the lithium-ion version - assures longer lifetime.
According to Andoh, what is important is the intelligent instinctive reaction, not the capability for data processing and storage.
The device is supposed to process only a few inputs per second and react on them accordingly.
There is no need for storing the inputs and reacting by the intuitive logic based on the previous manoeuvring data, so it allocates continuously only a few dozen kilobytes of memory.
There is no need for gigabyte or megabyte size memory.
This is the first step of developing the instant collision avoidance technology that, on the basis of Nissan's estimate, can be built into the series-produced cars within 10 years.
If connecting the device to the GPS satellite navigation system, an additional application option can be worked out which can help to avoid road barriers while driving.
A name granted to the expensive child
The written version of the bill on the 700 billion dollar economic bailout package has been drawn up. The draft law, applicable in several instalments, aims to purchase bad banking loans.
In the first round, half of the amount is planned to be spent.
"During the further reconciliations having come to an end on Saturday night, East Coast time, the congressional leaders managed to agree on the debate of several days, which concerned the 700 billion dollar bailout package", the Reuters confirmed.
"We have taken an important step forward", declared Nancy Pelosi, democratic chairwoman of the House of Representatives, adding that the only thing needed was to work out the written form of the agreement.
The compromise on the package has been supported by both presidential candidates, Barack Obama and John McCain as well.
Referring to the results of the compromise, Henry Paulson, Secretary of the Treasury declared: the programme is going to work well and going to be efficient, but further steps are still to be taken. According to Pelosi, it is not about rescuing Wall Street but to turn the direction of the economy.
The written form of the package has been published at 8 pm on Sunday, Washington time, at the opening time of the Asian markets (at 2 am in Central-Europe) but it did not cause much rising on the stock exchange market.
The draft legislation of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 will be put to the vote on Monday, first in the House of Representatives, secondly in the Senate.
President George W. Bush talked to Pelosi on Saturday night, then the news on the agreement was welcomed in the White House as well.
"We are satisfied with what we have reached during the night and we highly appreciate the efforts of the two parties in order to stabilize our financial markets and protect our economy", declared Tony Fratto, spokesman of the White House.
The programme differs from the proposal having been first submitted by the Bush-administration with the aim of spending the 700 billion dollars on purchasing low quality mortgage-backed securities.
Now in the first round a maximum of 50 percent of the USD 700 billion can be used in a way that USD 250 billion shall instantly be spent since the Congress is expected to vote on the issue on Monday. One part of this amount will be spent on buying low quality mortgage-backed securities. An additional amount of USD 100 billion is still waiting for the president to decide how to be used.
The programme will be supervised by a separate body with the involvement of the chairman of the Federal Reserve.
On how to spend the rest of the 700 billion dollars will be decided by the Congress.
Pursuant to the law, the Secretary of the Treasury is entitled to apply a combined tactic: it can buy bad loans, mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and other types of "poisonous" credits.
The purchase can be realized on auctions or in a direct way, according to the Treasury.
The legislation allows the companies concerned to participate in an insurance programme where the worrisome assets will be guaranteed by the Treasury and the companies will pay fees equivalent to the expected damages.
Henry Paulson declared: pursuant to the law, the required assets are provided depending on the situation; it might be an aid of USD 700 billion urgently needed by the American financial system, due to either the widespread purchase of bad assets, or the insurance of those, or even the prevention of a system risk caused by the collapse of some significant financial institutes.
"We will make the necessary arrangements in order to be ready for the implementation of the law, as soon as it has been signed", he added.
The directors of the troubled banks waiting for state aid should count on that their severance - which is simply called golden parachute in the overseas slang - will be restricted by the government.
The restriction of payments is introduced in certain cases only, limitations depend on the nature of the support provided by the Treasury.
Restriction means that in case the Treasury purchases on auction, surtax is imposed on the golden parachute, unless the ruined bank director is sent to retirement.
In the course of buying bad loans directly, the government will aggressively intervene in order to ensure that the amounts of managerial money are not exaggerated.
It must be added that the existing golden parachute contracts will not be amended, restriction applies only to the new ones in order to encourage participation in the programme.
"This is the first time in American history that legal restriction will be imposed regarding the remuneration of chief executive officers", commented House Financial Service Committee Chairman Barney Frank, of the Democratic Party.
Besides, the government will be conferred with the right of holding acquisition, this way taxpayers' risk will reduce, since they might even profit from the issue as soon as both the economy and the rescued bank is recovered.
The bill includes that the president is obliged to submit a proposal to the Congress within the next 5 years, which specifies how the expected losses will be returned to the taxpayers from the financial sector.
Sceptics gave voice for their doubts regarding the plan on both sides, too.
"This is not what American citizens expect from us, this will not protect taxpayers' dollars", stated Republican Representative Darrell Issa from California.
His Democratic colleague, Mary Kaptur declared the arrangements have been encouraged by the same people who are responsible for the collapse of Wall Street.
Industrial prices keep growing
"Industrial domestic sales prices of August 2008 rose by 0.1 percent as compared to the previous month, and by 12.9 percent in comparison with the figures of August 2007", KSH informs.
In relation to the data of July 2008, industrial export sales prices were 1.1 percent higher. When compared to the same period of the previous year, however, the prices decreased by 3.9 percent.
As a result of the domestic and export price changes, industrial producer prices went up by 0.7 percent compared to the previous month and by 3.2 percent in relation to the figures recorded one year earlier.
Industrial domestic sales prices showed a growth of only 0.1 percent compared to the previous month.
Domestic sales prices of the manufacturing industry increased only by 0.1 percent as well, in comparison to the figures of July.
In August 2008 the biggest price increase was experienced in leather, footwear manufacturing industry (2.8 percent), due especially to the 4.6 percent price increase in bag and strap production as well as the 2.5 percent monthly price increase in footwear production.
The higher price level of plastic and chemical materials are responsible for a significant monthly growth in the prices of the production of chemical materials and products (1.6 percent).
The prices decreased in crude oil processing (1.4 percent), in the production of electric machineries, tools (0.9 percent) as well as - to a minimal extent - in wood processing (0.1 percent).
The prices of paper production as well as of publishing and printing activities have not changed.
In the other sectors of the manufacturing industry the recorded price increase was between 0.2 percent and 0.9 percent.
The prices in electricity, gas, steam and water supply playing a significant role in the domestic industrial sales, rose by 0.3 percent, due mainly to the widely influencing gas price increase, which had been introduced by the authorities on 1st July.
Comparing the figures of the last 12 months - considering the domestic sales of manufacturing sectors - the highest price increase (32.4 percent) was observed in crude oil processing.
In the production of metal processing a price increase of 13.2 percent, in the field of food, beverage, tobacco production 11 percent growth was seen.
Prices fell in clothes and textile articles production (2.5 percent) as well as in the production of electric machineries, apparatus (0.3 percent).
The rate of price growth was observed between 0.6 percent and 9.1 percent in the rest of the manufacturing industries.
Prices in the whole manufacturing industry increased by 10.2 percent during the last 12 months.
Electricity, gas, steam and water supply prices exceeded the figures of the previous year by 18.7 percent.
Considering domestic sales within the sectors of destination, the highest monthly growth rate of August (0.7 percent) was experienced in the sectors producing capital goods.
Prices went up by 0.3 percent in the consumer goods industry, while in the energy sector and in the sectors producing for further use no changes have been observed in comparison with the previous month.
In August 2008 the highest price growth took place in the energy sector and in the sectors producing for further use (16.8 percent).
6.8 percent price increase was seen among the sectors producing consumer goods and 1.4 percent decrease in prices among those dealing with capital goods.
Forint-based industrial export sales prices in August rose by 1.1 percent in comparison with the previous month and decreased by 3.9 percent related to the figures of the past twelve months.
Our national currency weakened by 1.7 percent to the Euro, and by 7.1 percent to the dollar. The forint strengthened by 7.5 percent against the Euro, but it strengthened by 15.9 percent against the dollar as of August 2007.
No Visa Needed to the US from Next Year?
She added that "everything depends on whether the electronic access control system will be employed overseas in time".
She called attention to the fact that though there would be no entry permit in the new system, tourists will have to register before travel.
The leader of the Hungarian diplomacy is having negotiations in Washington from today.
She is meeting Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to whom she is giving the medal Middle Cross of the Decoration of Hungarian Republic with the Star and holding consultations with the foreign affairs consultants of the presidential candidates Barack Obama, Democratic Party and John McCain, Republican Party.
Both Barack Obama and McCain support the bank rescue package
Both Barack Obama and John McCain, presidential candidates of the two main American parties, confirmed on Sunday to back the government's 700 billion dollar bank rescue package, though there are politicians calling for the treasury secretary to resign.
After several days of marathon negotiations, the congressional and government representatives announced at Sunday dawn: they have reached an agreement in principle on the bank rescue package.
Wall Street crisis and the financial package aiming to render the frozen credit market have become central issues of the presidential campaign.
Both Obama and McCain seem to act in a way to prove: he is more suitable than his competitor to lead the country out of the economic crisis.
According to the latest surveys, due to the economic issues which have come into the foreground, Obama has gained some advantage again, while McCain's leading position - that he had acquired after the Republican convention, by having appointed Sarah Palin as vice-president - has now melted.
Obama expressed his hope at a campaign gathering in Detroit regarding the fast congressional approval of the act on the 700 billion dollar package.
He emphasized that the proposal included those consumer protection passages that he had supported, too.
"We must act now, with responsibility (...) people's jobs, their savings, entire industries, the stabilization of the whole economy are the things that are threatened", he added in front of a crowd of 35 000 people.
He did not miss the chance to describe McCain's economic concepts as outdated.
McCain stated in his report given to ABC that "this is a situation that will take long for all of us to digest (...) but doing nothing is just cannot be afforded".
The Republican senator declared that the proposal included the need to set up a committee supervising the treasury secretary and to restrict the severance of top leaders, it was him who had insisted on these issues.
Obama said to CBS that McCain had played no essential role in the reconciliations, while he had been in daily contact with the secretary.
Nancy Pelosi, chairwoman of the House of Representatives provided the information that the House of Representatives was expected to vote on the bill on Monday.
News From The German Papers
The right wing is untouched, only the voters of the group have become more self-conscious - Der Spiegel analyses the weak presence of CSU in Bavaria.
Haider and his party are ready to govern Austria in order to avoid red-black coalition.
Der Spiegel (spiegel.de)
Franz Walter analyses the causes of the CSU's dramatic defeat in his article The Bavarian revolution is eating up its parents, released in the Internet publication of the left wing news magazine.
According to the popular political scientist, the erosion of CSU had began far before the sad Beckstein-Huber duo took over the office.
Christian socialists were doing reforms in Bavaria for long decades - at the present these modern citizens are the ones who turn away.
The beginning of a new era means a problem for all Christian democracy, including Angela Merkel as well.
The defeat did not really surprise CSU but a whole process ended on Sunday, a process that had been likely to happen in the last 10 years: the cessation of the indisputable hegemony of a state party.
Ten years ago, in 1998 CSU landed on 47.7 percent, the first time under 50 percent since the fifties.
It happened again 3 years ago, during the Bundestag election 2005, namely in the oft-mentioned Stoiber era.
The reason for it was the consistent modernization carried out by CSU in the province, which eats up its parents.
Sociologists have predicted it for 40 years but concerning its speed they were wrong. Nevertheless, secularization, educational results, the settling of Germans from the Eastern and Northern part of the country to the developing regions of Bavaria could not remain without consequences on the CSU loyalty of the voters.
Modernisation comes together with the growth of opportunities and it has its own political consequences.
The right wing is untouched, only the voters of the group have become more self-conscious, critical and wilful.
What is also remarkable is that during the last weeks, mainly classical civil groups were departing from CSU; people of the liberal professions, industrial workers, people with secondary school certificate, people with college or university degree.
CSU support here has been diminished to below 40 percent.
Die Presse (diepresse.com)
"Who, with whom? Party chairmen are reserved considering coalition issues" is the title of the article in which the Vienna-based conservative daily newspaper is analyzing the confusing domestic political situation developed after the Austrian elections.
The election has already taken place, now everything is about the coalition; during the debate organized by the public television, there was hardly any chance to gain insight into the party leaders' cards.
Turning towards this direction again is out of question.
Molterer was cautious in handling red offers.
"In order to prevent a red-black coalition, we are ready to undertake government responsibility", declared Haider.
The European Equality Summit has been opened today in Paris, which is organized by France this year, representing the Presidency-in-office of the European Union.
The high level conference has been opened by Xavier Bertrand, French Minister for Labor and Social Affairs and Vladimir Spidla, European Commissioner responsible for Employment, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
Representatives of the governments, the European social partners and the most significant European legal aid organizations and NGOs from the field of equal opportunities were invited to have a seat on the conference.
"Most of the young Roma people do not have a secondary school qualification, and due to the low quality of the basic education only an insignificant part of them can obtain college or university degree".
Investing in the early education of Roma children can contribute to strengthening the economy of the European Union member states.
According to the representative, it is necessary to inform the widest range of people - Roma and non-Roma people as well - about these interrelationships.
The earlier a young Roma student starts attending school, the bigger their chances will be to become a productive member of the labour market; through the income and the taxes paid by them they would contribute to the national budget.
She also said that in order to instantly accelerate the processes of school desegregation, it is necessary to guarantee an objective- and action-oriented cooperation within the European Union. To accomplish this goal, it is fundamental to properly enforce the existing and planned anti-discrimination directives.
Within the framework of the "European Year of Equal Opportunities", the European Equality Summit - first organized in Berlin last year and since then held on an annual basis - aims to provide a unique forum to promote the objectives of equal opportunities and anti-discrimination at European and member state level as well.
CSU: Transition Grace Period
Decision About Defeated Huber-Beckstein Duo At The End Of October
Despite ignominious election failure heads have not rolled yet, personal issues are adjourned temporarily at the Bavarian CSU summits.
The destiny of the tandem which have suffered a catastrophic 17 percent vote loss will be decided by the extraordinary party congress at the last weekend of October.
However, members of the much criticized duo pictured: they do not insist on their seats by all means.
With this they intended to appease the furious members of the fraction and the basis who were claiming personal consequence because of having lost clear majority one day after the "Bavarian tsunami".
Five years ago the Christian Social Union - true, lead by Edmund Stoiber who had been at the top of his career at that time - had obtained 60.7 percent but now, one year after the coup against Stoiber, the party could reach 43.4 percent only.
CSU had been "absolute ruler" in Bavaria presenting 18 percent of German GDP for 46 years.
Although conservatives are still considered the most important party in the Southern province, which has key role for the Hungarian economy, they are definitely forced to form a coalition in the future.
As one of the first signs of restructuring within the party, Huber's potential successor, Party Vice President and Federal Agriculture Minister Horst Seehofer becomes member of the small exploratory team beginning investigative negotiations about a possible Munich-based government coalition with liberal FDP as well as with Free Voters representing right-wing values.
Irony of fate is that Gabriele Pauli, whose intervention against Stoiber had been misused as a coup opportunity and later was handled roughly by the Huber-Beckstein duo, becomes member of the legislative assembly from the party list of Free Voters.
Leaders of CSU are making efforts on stabilizing Beckstein in any way.
Stoiber, who was staying in the background until now, will have an active role in the transition time, the ex-state prime minister and former CSU president claimed 28th September the darkest day of his political career.
Huber made some bitter comments on CDU on Monday, according to him CSU would have deserved much more support from its fraternal party.
Other CSU politicians think that the defeat is a warning to both CDU and Angela Merkel.
After the Bundestag Election due in September 2009, Merkel cannot be chancellor, unless CSU, which was playing significant role in the 2005 national success, is rehabilitated through mutual efforts.
According to the disappointed Merkel, the failure of CSU will not have a negative impact on the coalition government in Berlin.
Although it is relative: the wounded CSU is not going to be easier to handle and the crisis of the social democrats is going to continue.
SPD has achieved its weakest result with 18.6 percent in Bavaria since 1946.
Lukashenko-Opposition: 110-0
No opposition representative was elected to the Belarusian parliament during the Sunday's election.
According to Russian observers, the reasons for this are the welfare and stability in the country led by Alexander Lukashenko, while Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) explains it as vote counting frauds.
OSCE delegating 450 observers from 43 countries refuses to recognize the election.
Although the 100 member legislation of the country of 10 million has been missing opposition for more than a decade, before the election yesterday joined forces of the opposition under the name of United Democratic Forces (UDF) had seriously expected that Lukashenko, who renewed his presidency for the fourth time during the controversial elections in 2006 after the amendments of the constitution, was going to "allow" presence of some opposition representatives in the parliament this time.
Based on this, UDF desisted from the formerly considered boycott, too.
The background of the expectations of the opposition was that the economically increasingly Russia-dependent Belarus - that had raised a loan to reduce the more and more expensive Russian gas import and agreed to Beltransgas owning gas pipelines crossing the country becoming Russian property - wished to improve its relations with the EU, where visa is not granted for Lukashenko and for a number of top politicians due to the Belarusian political system, which is considered anti-democratic.
However, OESC's Monday minute sheet raised objections against the campaign during which opposition candidates were practically not allowed to appear in the media and especially opposition not being permitted to be present at the counting of votes.
According to the opposition, improvement is still perceptible in the political system: political prisoners have been discharged and Minsk is inclined to confront with Moscow in a minor way by still not recognizing South Ossetia and Abkhazia which have seceded from Georgia, although Russia - forming a federal state with Belarus on paper - has already been considering the two territories independent for a month.
"We have taken two steps ahead and one backwards, but the most important thing is that dialogue between Belarus and the EU has started", told Alexander Milinkevich to our paper.
According to the opposition candidate of the presidential election of 2006, this dialogue needs to be maintained in spite of the fact that the "power has got afraid of allowing even one opposition member to enter the parliament of no weight".
Seeing the results, the opposition does not plan protesting actions, rather aims to reach voters with its message about the importance of economic reforms.
"We have much trouble with this of course, we have to print opposition newspapers in Russia, distribution is hindered by the local authorities, but I can still see that changes are favoured by more and more people, amongst the old, too", said Milinkevich referring to the fact that Lukashenko's regime, which considers the establishment of the social security as its most important result, is considered inappropriate even by pensioners who are officially most supported class of society of all.
"Owing to the indebtedness of the country and the increase of trade deficit, the break-down of social security 'similar to dead silence' is a question of time", Milinkevich claimed.
Russian observers described the elections as democratic, in contradiction to the opposition politician.
Commonwealth of Independent States mission leader Sergei Lebedev told Russian news agency, Ria Novosti: "People believe in actions not words", so the lack of opposition is nothing else than the evidence of Belarusian voters' maturity.
Brunetta: "From now on breakfast before work "
It has never happened in all the history of the Chigi Palace that there were revolving doors at the employee entrance and exit.
But as from today, a new measure starts against crafty skivers, against those who clock in and then go to the bar for a coffee during working hours.
The novel anti-slackers measure has been presented today by the Public Administration Minister, Renato Brunetta, and by the Secretary General of the Office of the President of the Council, Mauro Masi.
"Now a new season of responsibility and transparency opens.
This is reformism", underlines again Brunetta.
With the Chigi Palace, the installation in all the buildings of the Office of the President of the Council is complete.
For Masi "the choice of revolving doors is also important from a symbolic viewpoint".
There has been no opposition from the employees, assures the Secretary General: "It has been a process shared by the workers and everybody collaborated".
To conclude, no more breakfast during working hours; no more coffee and croissant.
A word from Brunetta, who suggests, smiling, "a good cappuccino at seven is blessed".
During a convention at the High School of Public Administration
of Rome, the minister, afterwards, makes known that "in three months the absences, by public employees, due to sickness have reduced by 50%, that is 60 thousand more people at work in a year".
And adds that it is necessary to make Public Administration more efficient.
Meantime thousands of public employees have united to challenge the provisions set by the Brunetta decree adhering to the petition supported by Codacons.
In fact, in Italy there are thousands of honest and productive public administration employees that have united to declare war on the illegitimate provisions within the decree".
In particular, at the TAR the exclusion of additional economic benefits for infirmity incurred during work will be contested; the extension of the hours that a sick employee has to make himself available for control medical visits, and other aspects within the new provisions insisted on by the minister.
Accidents at work, Napolitano: "Prevention is crucial"
Everyday, in Italy, at work 2500 accidents occur, 3 persons die and 27 remain permanently invalid.
For 2007, INAIL data confirm that in fact work related deaths have been around 1200.
Figures that witness the gravity of a phenomenon that remains one of the principal causes of death and causes almost double the deaths with respect to homicide.
To recall the attention of institutions, social forces and information media to this dramatic issue, today Anmil is celebrating in all the Italian provinces the 58th National Day for Casualties of Accidents at Work, institutionalised onto the second Sunday of October.
"The worrying data diffused by Anmil and the very same tragic current news confirm how crucial the issue of prevention at the workplace is", declares the President of the Republic Giorgio Napolitano, in his message to the president of Anmil, National Association of the Mutilated and Invalids at Work, Pietro Mercandelli.
The head of the State expresses his "deep appreciation of the constant associative efforts for prevention at the workplace, caring for injured workers, assistance of the casualties' families, and the sensitization of public opinion".
Napolitano does not conceal that "undoubtedly there's also a resources problem: it's important to invest in training and information.
A particular significance is assumed by the numerous initiatives promoted within the schools in raising awareness of the younger generation that face the work market.
It's a duty to keep alive the awareness of the phenomenon, not give up to its serious social alarm, apply and improve the legislative provisions.
On his part the president of the Chamber Gianfranco Fini has underlined "as the phenomenon of accidental deaths constitutes an absolute social emergency, that offends the conscience of each and every one of us and imposes on all the institutions a decisive obligation towards urgently ending it".
"Data regarding injuries at the workplace seem to signal a small positive trend, but this does not take away the fact that the number of accidental deaths is in any case impressive", remarked the president of Anmil Pietro Mercandelli.
"We believe that at a general level little is being done to oppose the phenomenon of industrial injury and the fight could be carried on through multiple actions.
But, above all, a greater sense of responsibility is required on behalf of employers in respect of a phenomenon that represents a social emergency".
Mercandelli then denounced "the progressive deterioration of the level of care benefit provided for casualties at work" and the "welfare drift which the system is taking in the last few years".
Mp3 players under accusation, they put hearing at risk
Listening to music at high volume for a prolonged period of time using portable musical devices such as Mp3 players could cause permanent lesions to hearing.
This is what a European Commission reports, which in a communication released in Brussels cites the advice given by the Scientific Committee on Emerging and Newly Identified Health Risks (SCENIHR) of the EU, published today.
"It worries me that such a large number of young people who frequently use portable musical players and cellular phones at very high volume may unconsciously damage their hearing in an irreparable way", declares Meglena Kuneva.
What counts most, we need to sensitize consumers and make this information available to the public.
Besides, in light of this scientific advice, we have to re-examine existent control systems to make sure that they are completely effective and kept up to date with new technology".
Brussels had asked the independent scientific Committee to examine the problem, seeing the widespread use of portable musical players and the increase in the number of young people exposed to the noise they generate.
Currently, a European security provision already exists which limits the noise level of portable musical players to 100 dB, but concerns regarding hearing damage caused by an excessive exposure to such noise sources, are increasing.
It is possible to considerably limit the damage by resorting to solutions such as the reduction of level and duration of the noise exposure.
In its opinion, the EU Scientific Committee points out that if users of portable musical players listen to music at high volume (>89 dB) for only 5 hours per week, they are already over the permissible maximum noise limits currently in place for the workplace.
People who listen to music under such conditions for longer durations risk a permanent loss of hearing ability after a 5 year period.
This is the case for 5-10% of users of such devices and their number can be quantified to between 2.5 and 10 million people within the EU.
Rome, Alemanno gives the go ahead to the Commission for the  Future of the Capital
Today it starts, in March it concludes, in June the conclusions are drawn.
This is the schedule set by the Campidoglio for the "Commission for the Future of the Capital", which has this morning taken up residence at its new premises behind the Caracalla Hot Springs.
In six months, the president Antonio Marzano and the other 49 components of the Commission will set down the guidelines for Rome.
Once the project has been concluded in March, the Municipal Board and Council will evaluate the analysis and projects, so that in June the strategic plan for Rome can be presented with the official stamp of the Campidoglio and the mayor Gianni Alemanno.
There is no superposition of roles but only the will to have a place where a big project for Rome can be drawn up.
In March its job will be done and it will dissolve, because this experiment should have a precise deadline.
For those who accuse the Commission of being useless, since its opinions will not be binding, Alemanno replies: "Everything depends on the work that the commission will be able to do and the quality of its proposals.
If the quality is there, as in France with the Attali Commission and as I'm sure there will be in Rome, then its contribution will be fundamental.
Too often politics are overwhelmed by everyday administration and by emergencies that manifest themselves from time to time.
On the contrary, we want to look further forwards and further ahead, with a deeper perspective, working seriously on the development of Rome and its future.
Furthermore, the mayor of Rome would like to point out that "this commission is neither a useless agency nor an unwieldy bureaucratic organisation: it's absolutely free, it will not cost the citizens of Rome a cent and it will serve to get reasoning and get involved the best minds that the Capital has to offer".
For Alemanno, in fact, "it's essential to have a strategic reference plan, not closed or inflexible, to permit our city to do an authentic leap in quality, which it really needs, thinking with a united spirit of its future.
A future that, specifies the Mayor of Rome "will not limit itself to the current municipal borders but will look further afield" not only with the view of a future metropolitan city and its legal status as Capital but "also with consideration to the role that Rome could and must perform as Capital of Europe and the Mediterranean".
Obama? The first anti-American President. Here is why?
A famous American politician, who would like to pass off as independent, wrote: Barack Obama will be the second anti-American president.
The first was Jimmy Carter, who with his decisions decimated the US economy and had dealings (as he still does today as a private citizen) with the enemy Islam".
Attacks on Obama increase right as the election date nears.
A lady from Miami has written on the web: "This person is full of ambitions.
Obama is being cheeky: he thinks he can win the highest position in a country which has had in total two governors and five senators that were black!".
In reality, these are attacks that don't mean a lot: they are clearly racial attacks and do not answer the electors' question: will he be a good president? And then there are the polls; all of them say that Obama will win and by a wide margin.
Even in this case there are those who speak from the heart and not from the head.
A Mississippi newspaper, deep in the South of the United States, wrote an editorial: once inside the voting cabin we know well enough to whom the American patriot will give his vote.
A side of the United States mentality that has been kept under wraps to the last, emerges.
"Say whatever you like, afterwards we'll take care of where to put the cross, for Obama or for McCain".
There are people who swear: if Obama wins, we will go away from America.
Things that have never been said before now, when the success of the black candidate is almost certain.
However, in spite of all these arguments, the winning trump for the Democrats is George Bush.
1500 people have been asked what have been the errors committed by Bush during his mandate? 89 per cent have answered: Iraq.
America changes.
In Vietnam this nation lost 50 thousand soldiers and was sent home with its tail between its legs.
In Iraq 4500 soldiers have lost their lives and the Americans have not been forced to pack up and leave.
Yet, for the majority Iraq has been the weak point of Bush.
Whoever takes up the place of George W. will have an enormous task to do.
USA, the economic depression is being felt also by the journalists: in the newspapers it is time for cuts. And many blame the internet, "killer" of the printed paper.
Five hundred American journalists have been asked by PEW Research Centre what they think of the state of their profession and mental control as regards to the future.
Well, nowadays journalists are almost all of them pessimistic regarding their future.
Yet, to the information clerks, they have not openly declared to be less worried with respect to credibility.
They don't feel as isolated as they used to.
The problem for American journalists is the money, the money.
The 2008 crisis for these journalists is a crisis of a destroyed economic model.
Furthermore the cuts carried out in the newsroom, the office where editors work to assemble the newspaper, are a big problem.
It's a problem that needs to be resolved, according to the journalists interviewed, if we do not want that traditional journalism as it is understood by the general public is substantially diminished.
A clear but complex pessimism nowadays pervades American journalists.
Six out of ten journalists of the printed press and senior executives are convinced that journalism at a national level is going down the wrong road.
Within the local field the executive group is 65%.
Printed against broadcast.
It's not difficult for journalists to see where the web is going.
The major publishing houses are opening a passage for themselves towards the internet, by many seen as the "assassin" of the printed paper.
The "economic pressure" that journalists have felt has increased up to 79%.
The 500 journalists interviewed have admitted that they are embracing technology hoping that it "will do some good" for their journalism.
56% of managers at national level are certain that their reporters share their values, whilst at local level the percentage decreases to 23%.
For some this has got to do with "job security".
On a national level, 43% of the managers believe they will lose their jobs within 3 years.
For journalists the figure is 30%.
As for "job security" at staff level (our editors, ndr) in America it varies on a day to day basis.
Only 13% of journalists have a work contract.
In an immense nation such as the USA, with 300 million inhabitants and thousands of journals, magazines, radio, TV, and internet employers offer whatever they want and hence it becomes a question of take it or leave it.
Directors almost always receive huge salaries, while an editor may earn 10 thousand dollars a month, in addition to the pension and paid insurances.
As for holiday, things get complicated: so many days the first year, so many days after the third to get to a total of 15 days after a certain number of years.
But American journalists, by their own admission, fall frequently "ill" during the year.
It's all a question of climate.
UNIPOL: ROME TRIBUNAL, DANILO COPPOLA STAYS AT GROTTAFERRATA
The president of the second penal section of the Rome tribunal, Carmelo Rinaudo, has decided to reject the petition made by the estate agent, Danilo Coppola that had requested to be able to move from his home town, Grottaferrata, to an abode in Rome.
Coppola is under investigation for bankruptcy within the scope of the inquiry on the counter-proposal regarding the Unipol-Bnl takeover.
While on trial, last week, he obtained the release from house arrest transformed into an obligation to remain resident in Grottaferrata.
His lawyers, Michele Gentiloni and Gaetano Pecorella, had asked that the estate agent could travel from the country town within the province to an abode within the capital.
According to the tribunal, however, these trips (against which the PM has advised)would allow him to influence his company and to have access to the evidence that is used to charge him.
The elite in danger
The phenomenon had already manifested itself a couple of days back with the vote in the Chamber of Representatives against the rescue plan of 700 billion American dollars passed by the White House: a significant portion of Americans was, and still is, more interested in punishing Wall Street than in saving the economy.
The soul, to be exact, which has made itself overbearingly alive with the vote mentioned initially.
The latter is but only one example of the changes, of the big changes, that the current economic earthquake perhaps heralds or allows to be perceived: not only in the United States but also in all the West and maybe not only here.
Both in the USA as in Europe the crisis seems to act as a catalyst for phenomena which have been in incubation for some time and which in the new climate have solidified and are finally coming to light.
The first of these phenomena is the bringing back up-to-date, the extraordinary re-launch, of the twin category state-sovereignty in relation to a sort of re-nationalisation of the economy.
The crisis, in fact, is a crisis for the financial-banking institutions who have, indeed, strong ties with foreign countries, but which above all deal with the budgets of persons or families who live in a single nation, in a single state.
This immediately creates a political problem for whoever is in government: and that is how to respond to the difficulties and the protests of those people and those families that, besides, also form the electorate.
In other words the crisis appears to be economically worldwide but politically it is almost exclusively a national problem.
Political internationalism appears to be substantially out of play or to not have a lot to say: the clear proof of this is given by the European Union that, divided as usual between the various interests and the diverse state strategies, cannot decide on a common political path.
And so it is from the government of each single State that all wait for intervention, bailout and re-launching plans, new rules, and especially financial aid: since that when it comes to worst it is only the States that have financial resources, the mass of financial resources capable to try and fix things.
And they possess likewise the necessary means, and the legitimate reasons to use them: two resources of incommensurable value, under certain circumstances, of which probably no market and no international organisation could ever dispose of in an analogous measure.
This new emphasis that the crisis poses on the statal-national element is after all perfectly tuned with the ever increasing importance that the latest economic developments tend to attribute to a coefficient that is very closely connected to that element: territoriality.
Paradoxically, in fact, while we were convinced that we had entered the reign of the web, of a technology increasingly more sophisticated, of the immaterial, while we were convinced that globalised finance was by now destined to dominate the world, we became suddenly aware that our future had instead to deal in an ever increasing fashion with those things that are very little immaterial such as water, harvests, oil.
Accidentally, all are items that can certainly be transported from one place to another but in any case are tied in an absolute fashion to a well defined space, to a territory.
So that whoever finds himself to be the sovereign , surely holds more cards in his deck than he who isn't, than he who happens to live in a place without crops, oil, or water.
I'm getting to the second novelty that however predicts a split.
Whoever says Territory, State, Government, inevitably implies Politics, and hence Leadership.
In this respect the economic crisis seems to produce two convergent phenomena.
On the one hand the knowledge of the objective need for authoritative leadership, the demand for somebody who knows how to handle the situation.
On the other hand a wave of discredit for existent leadership, an economic sort, revealed to be so inadequate and full of grey areas.
And together something ever deeper and in a certain way disturbing: a discredit, an intolerance, an image of inadequacy, a sense of remoteness that tends to involve the entire ruling class of an ever-increasing number of Western countries.
Rather, it appears to make its way further in vast sections of the population the conviction which before that their actions are the same ideas as of the social elite up till now in favour, their way of feeling and being, their culture in all accepted meanings of the word, to have had their day, and to always be more alien to the opinion of the majority.
One gets the impression that the traditional elite, their parties, their programmes, but also their rites, their newspapers, their accredited intellectuals, some would say their formats, are finding it always more difficult to comprehend, and hence to represent, that which has been taking shape within the deepest layers of western societies and which the economic crisis is strengthening, augmenting, potentially agitating without restraint.
But keeping one's eyes wide open, it is not for sure.
Superglue to be able to walk on walls
To defeat the laws of gravity thanks to a super glue and in the future be able to walk up walls like Spiderman.
It's the aim of various American research centres and now a team of four institutes has come very close.
With an adhesive of only 2.5 cm squared the scientists have succeeded in gluing a body of 100 kilograms onto a vertical wall.
The material invented by the team of scientists is an improvement on existent materials that utilise a particular carbon structure, called carbon nanotubes.
The scientists were inspired by the paws of geckoes, covered with microscopic bristles which succeed in assuring a perfect adhesion to the animal.
Perhaps for walking on walls just like Spiderman? Maybe yes, but the researchers are thinking of a less glamorous use such as the connections between electrical devices, because the carbon nanotubes are conductors of heat and of electrical current.
Other applications could be within the aerospace industry.
For now, no superheroes.
In an article in the journal of the  American Chemical Society the Californian scientists have presented an adhesive composed of microfibers like hair that self-clean from the dust during movement on a surface to always maintain a perfect adhesion.
Drugs: Never with fruit juices.
Be careful of grapefruit juice, orange juice, and apple juice.
These drinks, especially consumed in summer because they are thirst quenching and rich in vitamins, if taken together with some lifesaving drugs may alter their absorption, amplifying or diminishing, depending on the case, their efficiency with consequences that may also be serious for health.
Confirming the risks associated with the assumption of fruit juices whether they are pre-packaged or fresh with certain medicines is David Bailey, professor at the university of Western Ontario in London, who from the 236th national meeting of the American Chemical Society underway in Philadelphia launches a new warning: a glass of grapefruit juice, orange juice, or apple juice is enough to reduce the absorption of certain lifesaving drugs, nullifying their beneficial effects and putting at risk the health of patients.
Grapefruit juice has already been accused because it was thought to be responsible for raising, up to levels thought to be toxic, the effects of some antirhythmic, antibiotic, tranquilising, antihistaminic, and neurological medicines.
The list of active principles inhibited by grapefruit and other fruit juices is very long.
Hence the appeal of Michele Carruba, director of the Department of Pharmacology of the State University of Milan:"Usually, such discoveries are immediately brought to the attention of the various international and national drug agencies that then change the information slips of medicines.
The Nobel Prize for Economy to Paul Krugman
The Nobel Prize for Economy goes to the American Paul Krugman for his studies on market models and on the localisation of economic activities.
55 year old Krugman is a neo-Keynesian that teaches at Princeton University and he is a well-known leader writer of the New York Times.
Krugman is one of the major critics of the choices made in economy and foreign policy made by the Bush administration.
A few months after the attacks of September 2001, in the days when Enron was going bankrupt, Krugman had forecasted in an editorial published on the New York Times that the second incident would have been more determining than the first, in terms of its consequences on the history of the United States.
A prediction that started a fair number of disputes and that for years had been thrown in the economist's face, but has now been revealed to have been exact.
Today sees the release of Openoffice.org 3.0, the open source personal productivity suite which aims at gaining more users, from domestic to home users, from professionals to public administration, as a free alternative for the better known Microsoft Office.
After a effort lasting for almost a year on behalf of volunteer developers, with SUN Microsystem supervising at their backs, the new Open Office is revealed to the general public with various novelties: to the welcome screen and to a revisited, less Spartan user interface, are added others more substantial such as native compatibility with the Apple Mac OS X operating system and support for the new format ODF (Open Document Format) 1.2, the latest ISO version standard.
Attention was also placed on interoperability with the Office 2007 suite, Open Office is capable of opening documents with the new Microsoft extension (.docx, .xlsx, .pptx).
Interesting are some functions specific to some modules such as the one that allows for the reduction in size of PowerPoint presentations, useful for example for sending them via email, or the possibility of importing a PDF file into the graphics module, maintaining the original appearance of the page.
Always on the same track, it is possible to create "hybrid PDF" documents, that join the standard graphics of the Adobe format with the elements of a spreadsheet or a word processor.
Collaboration is one of the features within the applications that has been considerably improved: in the spreadsheet application several users can operate simultaneously, avoiding conflicts on the modifications, in the word processor, each users is assigned a commenting colour to improve recognition during revision.
Some companies are also working on porting some of the functionalities of OpenOffice onto the Web (on the cloud), and during the next few weeks they should release the definitive product.
The Italian version is available for download at the address http://it.openoffice.org/download/3.0.0/download300.html and is added to the English version which has been available on mirror sites since Friday.
Besides for Windows and Mac OS, as usual the suite is also available for the Linux operating system.
On request the installation cd can be sent to your home or workplace.
And if the gimmick of free could be a driving force for the diffusion into houses, it is in the business setting that Open Office is trying the big bet since it can already count on several projects realised within the public administration and schools.
And there are even institutions that offer training services, consultancy, and assistance, ideal small to medium enterprises, which could create more business opportunities.
Open Office is composed of five main modules: Writer, for onscreen typing corresponding to Word; Calc, the spreadsheet application aiming at substituting Excel; Impress, for presentations in emulation of Powerpoint; Dbase, as in the case of the more famous Access is the application that consents working on databases; Draw, is the graphic module.
The aim for 2008 is to achieve 5 million downloads, and considering that up till today we are at almost 3 million 600 thousand, with the release of the new version it is probable that the predicted figure could even be exceeded.
Even Kohl tested positive, it is the fourth case of doping
A new case of positive testing during the last Tour de France: it is the Austrian Bernhard Kohl, of the team Gerolsteiner, third in classification and winner of the best grimpeur shirt.
Reporting the news is the daily newspaper L'Equipe.
The analysis of the blood samples from Kohl form part of those performed within the last few weeks by the laboratories of Losanna and Chatenay-Malabry.
If the counter-analysis confirm the tests as positive to Cera, the Austrian will lose the third place at the Tour and faces the two-year canonical disqualification.
Confirming the news of Kohl testing positive to the third generation Epo is the French anti-doping agency's chief, Pierre Bordry who informed the Associated Press that he had notified the Austrian authorities of the positive test results.
The 26 year old Austrian had placed himself on the finalist podium behind the Spanish Carlos Sastre and the American Cadel Evans, also winning the polka-dotted shirt of the best grimpeur.
IMMIGRANTS: NEW YORK IS WONDERING, IS ITALY RACIST?
Italy "from a country of emigrants has recently been transformed into a privileged destination for immigrants" reluctantly received.
This case proves what the New York Times calls the "northern paradox": the northern regions are simultaneously the areas where there is "most integration and most work" but also where there is "the highest anti-immigrant feelings in the country and the highest support for the Northern League".
As a confirmation of the increasing tension between Italians and immigrants the NYT has also cited the incidents of intolerance in Milan, Parma, Rome, Ciampino, and Castel Volturno.
Not only.
Even the new legislation from the League that tightens the brakes on immigration and facilitates the expulsion of illegal immigrants is advanced as a paradigm of the change in climate in Italy.
A trend that has been highlighted by the Pope as well as by the President of the Republic "Giorgio Napolitano who meeting Benedict XVI at the Quirinal has asked that the State and the Church work together to defeat racism".
Students victims of high rents up to 900 Euro for a room
The rent market for university students does not know crises.
According to the latest investigation by SUNIA, the tenants' syndicate, renting a single room could cost a student up to 900 Euro in Milan, 700 in Florence, 650 in Naples, 600 in Rome.
In the majority of cases the rent-offers contain a series of violations: freestyle contracts, unregistered, without rent limits, connected subleases.
According to SUNIA special intervention is necessary that, through a revision of the taxes imposed, the prices could be cooled down.
Looking at the details of the investigation, one can see that in Milan, for a bed-space in the Brianza zone, 450 Euro are required; for a single room one goes from a minimum of 650 (Black Band zone), to an average price of 800 (Lambiate zone, Udine and Fiera), and on to a maximum of 900(Victoria zone).
In Florence a bed-space costs on average 350/400 Euro, a room approximately 700.
In Bologna, where the students concentrate themselves in the areas closest to the university, 250/280 Euro are required for a bed-space in a double room, and from 370 to 500 for a single.
In Rome in the zone near the central universities (San Lorenzo, Piazza Bologna) approximately 600 Euro is the asking price for a single room, 450 Euro for a bed-space in a double room.
Savings are only possible by moving to the suburbs: 300 Euro for a bed-space and 450 for a single in areas such as Prenestrina, Centocelle and similar places.
In Naples 300/450 Euro are required for a bed-space, for a single room one spends 400 to 600 Euro, with the highest prices found in the Policlinico, Vomero, and Colli Aminei areas.
In Bari for a bed-space 250/350 Euro are required, at least 350 for a single.
In smaller cities the prices are lower in absolute terms, but they have a higher impact on the local economy.
In cities where renting to non-EU students is a more frequent phenomenon, such as Perugia, there is a further anomaly: the increase of about 25/30 % of the rent price asked from foreign students with respect to that asked from Italian students.
Goodbye old Cinema Paradiso, cities cancel historical theatres
Historical cinematographic theatres close in favour of Multiplex.
"A city without cinematographic theatres is a blind city, it's like a face without eyes".
The image offered by the director Giuseppe Tornatore efficaciously photographs what is happening not only in the large Italian urban centres but also in provincial towns.
The sidelining process of the cinemas, with the birth in the outskirts of large multi-hall theatres and the consequent death by consumption of the single-hall theatres within the central areas of the city, is one of those events that appears unavoidable and incontrovertible and also has all the characteristics of a real cultural crime.
The numbers provided by Anec, the main cinema-operators association, speak clearly: within the last five years 316 traditional style cinemas have closed shop, and the ones to pay the price were above all the theatres in the principal cities: 10 less in Florence, 9 in Milan, Naples, Bologna, and Rome, 6 less in Turin, 5 in Palermo.
Among the regions most badly hit by the closures, Emilia-Romagna takes the lead with 82 single-hall cinemas lost, followed by Tuscany (44), and by Lombardy (41).
And to demonstrate that the arrival of the multiplex is the most responsible for their disappearance, these are exactly the three Italian regions with the largest number of new multiplex cinemas registered: 195 more screens in Lombardy in the last five years, 81 in both Tuscany and Emilia-Romagna.
Not to mention the missed allocation of funds in favour of operators: the previous debit by the state is of approximately 10 million Euro.
It's disgraceful, from the ethical and from the moral point of view, that the government does not respect the existent laws.
An interesting example is that of Bologna, the first Italian city that, concerned by the closures, has decided to take cover by signing a protocol between the municipality and Anec, the first of its kind in Italy, to protect and promote single-hall cinemas both in the historical centre as well as on the outskirts.
Among the foreseen provisions there are tax relief measures in favour of operators and advantages for the public in terms of mobility: the spectators can enter in the traffic-limited zone and have special tariffs for road parking and in some car parks.
It's certain though, that to contrast the excessive power of the multiplex, traditional theatres have also to improve the sound and image quality, because the public nowadays is more demanding.
The defence of traditional cinemas is a theme that for me has always been important: the closure of the Bagheria Supercinema, the place of my infancy and adolescence, was the spark that convinced me to create "New Cinema Paradiso", on which I have already been thinking for the last 10 years.
"The mayor of Gioia Tauro was disposed towards conforming municipal interests with those of the Piromalli gang".
The accusations that the magistrates of the Calabrese Anti-mafia Office direct against the mayor and the deputy mayor of Gioia Tauro Giorgio Dal Torrione and Rosario Schiavone, and the mayor of Rosarno Carlo Martelli, who have been arrested this morning for external contest with mafia association, are very serious.
Also arrested is Gioacchino Piromalli, the senior mediator between the clan and the public administration offices, and his nephew - a lawyer, namesake of the boss, already condemned for mafia-style criminal association, condemned to repay 10 million euro.
"In contempt of all judicial and moral rules, and common sense", write the public prosecutors, the two local administrations had expressed the will to pay consultancy fees to the lawyer Piromalli.
The president of the Calabrese local council Agazio Loiero does not hide that "collusions between local institutions and organised crime are numerous" within his region: "there are areas where mafia presence is stronger and more intense than in others, where collusion is almost inevitable.
However, there are many local politicians who resist the pressure put on by the 'ndrangheta, heroes who remain clean".
This morning's arrests follow those in July with which the police announced to have beheaded the Piromalli gang.
At the end of last April, the municipal council of Gioia Tauro was dissolved but already in 1991, and always for presumed conditioning between organised crime and local administration, local politicians had been relieved from duties of administration of the municipality.
Giorgio Dal Torrione, the mayor of UDC at the time of the dissolution, had been elected head of a centre-right coalition, after the May 2006 ballot.
He made a scandal out of it when the Prefecture ordered the dissolution of the municipal council.
He brought in cause the then vice-minister of the Interior Marco Minniti accusing him of having plotted everything for political motives, however the judges, in the arrest warrant signed this morning, have explained that the Piromalli gang had even arrived at asking for the variation of the A3 project.
From the interceptions ordered on Dal Torrione, writes the public prosecution, has emerged " a willingness to marry the needs of an entrepreneur, representative of a larger group notoriously close to the Piromalli, aligning the choices of the public administration with the interests of the gang".
When energy is born from the waves the big come into play
It's an immense body, that occupies 70% of the planet's surface and now the big, international energy companies are discovering it.
Waves, currents, tides are the new renewable sources being eyed, and subjected to attempts of development, by colossi such as Chevron.
The possibility of extracting energy from sea movement has been under study for a hundred years and in the 70's, coinciding with the first oil crisis, research was intensified.
When the oil prices went down, around 1980, the idea of exploiting marine energy was put aside, but now the appeals by the environmentalists and the new increases in oil prices have given impetus to the sector.
The World Energy Council (WEC) in London has estimated that in 2007 15 percent of the world's electrical needs could be provided for by the exploitation of the seas' undulating motion.
This amount would be double that currently produced by nuclear power stations.
And then there would be the currents and the tides.
Colossi on the attack.
The first company to bet on marine energy was Enersis, which in 2005 has signed an agreement to construct a plant in the north of Portugal.
When the understanding was announced it looked like a revolutionary step.
Two years on there are more companies betting on marine energy and among these, there are companies that have always been devoted to traditional energy.
The cooperation in question regards the obtaining of a permit from the U.S. Energy Commission, necessary to start a project to exploit marine energy in Alaska.
This is a significant sign, especially if one considers that right in Alaska the US continues to extract oil and recently President Bush has set in motion a plan for new drilling.
Besides Chevron there are Verdant Power Inc. Of New York and the Ocean Power of New Jersey to travel the path of marine energy and the sums invested so far, even though they are not known in detail, indicate according to the observers an increasing interest.
Technology to be made ready.
Experts talk about a technology still in its infancy, marine energy does not put to rest all the doubts about its environmental impact.
Till now the plants such as the Portuguese one or some in Scotland are small and do not appear to create big problems for the ecosystem.
To produce energy on a large scale, however technologies with a higher environmental impact need to be implemented.
And the choices are varied: Ocean Power, for example, uses a system of buoys connected between themselves.
The thrust of the waves, which makes the buoys move up and down is converted into hydraulic pressure by pistons and cylinders inside the floaters.
The pressure turns a turbine which in its turn fuels a generator.
The electricity is sent to shore through underwater cables.
For now there are four plants of this kind being planned, waiting only for federal approval and part of the energy could be used by a military installation.
Verdant Power, on the other hand, already produces energy for a commercial centre and a parking lot using six underwater turbines in New York's East River.
The water movement when there are the sea tides makes the fans of the turbines go round, creating a rotary motion that powers a generator.
Verdant has said that it has a long list of clients waiting for the necessary authorisations to benefit from the energy.
After the waves, the tides.
Particular interest, declare the people at the Electrical Energy Research Institute, is deserved at the moment by the potential of tides.
Even though it is an intermittent phenomenon, the tide is more predictable than the wind, the sun, or the waves, and so is more reliable as a source of energy.
It's exactly on tidal energy that states such as New York, Maine, and Alaska, together with others that overlook the coast, have already invested 7.5 million dollars in 2008 and are foreseen investments of up to 35 million for 2009.
Barack Obama becomes the fourth American president to receive the Nobel Peace Prize
The American president Barack Obama will fly into Oslo, Norway for 26 hours to receive the Nobel Peace Prize, the fourth American president in history to do so.
He will receive a diploma, medal and cheque for 1.4 million dollars for his exceptional efforts to improve global diplomacy and encourage international cooperation, amongst other things.
The head of the White House will be flying into the Norwegian city in the morning with his wife Michelle and will have a busy schedule.
First, he will visit the Nobel Institute, where he will have his first meeting with the five committee members who selected him from 172 people and 33 organisations.
The presidential couple then has a meeting scheduled with King Harald V and Queen Sonja of Norway.
Then, in the afternoon, the visit will culminate in a grand ceremony, at which Obama will receive the prestigious award.
He will be the fourth American president to be awarded the prize, and only the third to have received it while actually in office.
The White House has stated that, when he accepts the prize, Obama will speak about the war in Afghanistan.
The president does not want to skirt around this topic, as he realises that he is accepting the prize as a president whose country is currently at war in two countries.
A few days ago he stepped up the war effort by sending more troops to Afghanistan, something that his critics will be stressing.
At the ceremony, Obama will also be given a gold medal, a diploma, and a cheque for ten million Swedish krona (around 24 million Czech crowns).
He intends to donate this money to charity, but hasn't decided which yet.
Their busy schedule will then take the president and his wife to a banquet, which will be attended by the Norwegian king and queen as well as the ministerial chairman and another 250 invited guests.
Obama has always been reticent in regards to his prize.
He has said, for example, that he feels that he does not wholly deserve it.
He has repeatedly said that the prize isn't for him, but for everyone who upholds the same values.
Right after hearing about it, he described it as a "challenge to take action."
Nature protection officers accused of blackmail
He is now under arrest and faces up to three years in prison.
Recycling containers don't smell so good in Brno
In Prague, normal people can sort their beverage bottles, and, in South Moravian, villages are recycling containers on every corner.
And in Brno?
There, it will take you a good few minutes to find the right sort of bin.
I don't mean to imply that garbage isn't sorted in Brno.
But it seems to me that considering we're the second largest city in the country, the authorities are not showing enough interest in this problem.
Brno is falling way behind in its garbage sorting, not only because people here can still only put paper, glass and plastic into these bins, but mostly because of the sheer lack of containers for this kind of waste.
Have you ever tried throwing a plastic bottle into a bin in the city centre?
It's a real art form, and you need time and steady nerves.
No offence to Mr. Onderka and his colleagues, but it's really not good enough.
Not to mention that it's no easy task sorting garbage in other parts of the city.
Plenty of my friends don't bother sorting their garbage.
Out of laziness.
It's just too far to the bin, you see.
I don't blame them.
After a party, I offered to throw out a few glass and plastic bottles.
But, on Kounicova ulice, there were no coloured bins to be seen.
Luckily, on the way to the tram, I found the right place.
But it was overflowing with garbage.
Come on, this is the centre of Brno. Isn't it supposed to look good?
It should, but ecology and aesthetics don't seem to interest the Brno socialists much.
They prefer to buy the city a new hockey extra-league, which puts us to shame all over the country, instead of buying a few more containers and letting us sort other garbage for a cleaner Brno.
I'm glad to see that, after browsing the net for a while, my assumptions are confirmed by official statistics.
Figures published by EKO-KOM show that Brno really is the worst off in the whole of South Moravia.
"Paroubek's" budget takes money for pensions and sick pay
The fact that the left gave extra money to the farmers and civil servants in the face of government opinion means that there might not be enough money in the budget to cover pensions, sick pay, or building society savings.
And also not enough for interest on the national debt or to cover international judicial disputes.
This will bring problems for whoever is in office in the latter half of next year, said the Finance Minister Eduard Janota.
When the social democrats and communists raised interest rates for certain groups, they were relying on the fact that the government would loan money for susceptible expenses, pensions, and sick pay. "It's just a case of postponing the problem, laying a minefield," says Janota.
Higher interest has to be paid on loaned money, and, at some point, it has to be paid back.
The state does not have much choice where to find it.
If it doesn't reduce social benefits or the costs of running the state, it will have to increase taxes.
For all those that the left just handed out money to: firefighters, teachers, farmers.
And later, their children, too.
People don't have to worry about pensions or sick pay, where 1.8 billion has disappeared from the accounts; they'll get them.
Despite the efforts of Minister Janota, debt will continue to increase at an ever faster rate, as will interest costs.
The state will need money to cover it, and it's no longer enough just to slightly bump up VATs or reduce maternity benefits, as the government has done in its anti-deficit package.
As money has been diverted to several groups of voters, next year there will also be a shortage of five billion for building highways and railways.
These are mostly sections that have been tendered out and are half-finished and cannot be redesigned or made any cheaper.
At the most, conserve what isn't free too.
This means that delaying or halting thirty major building projects and money from European funds is also at risk, warns transport ministry spokesman Karel Hanzelka.
The problem is that the level of these dividends is never certain, and they are certainly not a bottomless resource.
Every year, these dividends are used to pay for clearing up ecological damage, topping up the pensions account, or are set aside as a reserve for the upcoming pension reforms.
Moreover, according to EU regulations, this trick increases the actual budget deficit to 5.7 percent of GDP.
But this is not the end of these transfers.
The budget is almost three billion shot to cover various damages owed to the victims of communism and crime, to meet the cost of judicial disputes, and even to cover building society savings.
It is still not clear if the state can get by without this money.
It's a gamble.
If we were to lose an international dispute, we'd still have to pay, claims Janota.
The minister will then have to save money within the resort or, in the worst case scenario, reach into the government's budget reserve.
The two-billion-crown State Treasury project, which is already underway, is also lacking a hundred million, and what each office is spending can be followed on-line.
The first stage will start in January.
If the finance minister can't find the money elsewhere, the project will have to be aborted and sanctions will be imposed, warns Janota.
Your next smartphone will run two operating systems
The Americans are saying that, in the future, users will be able to switch between different operating systems on their mobile phones at the touch of a button.
The plans revealed so far look promising.
Just press one key and in just a few seconds you can switch from Windows Mobile to Android.
This is the goal of the American company Vmware, which primarily develops computer virtualisation software.
This will let you have two user profiles at once on the same phone.
You can switch between them or have one for work and one for home.
Both of them will run at the same time, says Srinivas Krishnamurti of VMware in an interview with Computer World magazine.
It was presented last November and first demonstrated just a few days ago.
It will go on sale in 2012.
The virtualisation of smartphones is not science fiction.
VMware has already given reporters a demonstration of a smartphone with two operating systems.
It was a modified N800 with 128 MB of RAM, running Windows Mobile and Android at the same time.
The development of new mobile phone technology is in full swing.
VMware is now working with European and American operators to test smartphone virtualisation and the sets should reach customers sometime during 2012.
Lack of snow in mountains causes problems for hoteliers
The lack of snow is putting people off booking ski holidays in hotels and guest houses.
We're getting plenty of visitors to our site.
People are browsing the offers, checking prices, but, so far, are worried about making a definite booking.
"When they call, the first thing they ask is if we think they'll see snow or mud," says Martin Jandura, who runs the Spindl.Info information web site.
Those preferring to save money and go for cheaper accommodation can still give it a few days.
I think they'll try to keep that up for a while, but even they will give in and offer shorter stays.
Then there'll be a sudden shortage of vacancies," estimates Jandura.
Half of our capacity is still available.
That's why we've been preparing some cheaper last-minute Christmas breaks," said Ingtours director Petr Schiefert.
Another good time for bookings is the first fortnight in February, although bookings for the remaining winter dates tend to be average.
People are waiting to see if any falls.
Nobody wants to spend the end of the year in the mountains when there's no snow.
If snow falls on the slopes this week, Christmas will sell out too," says Schiefert.
We're up about 5 percent.
We have the last few vacancies for New Year's Eve and Christmas.
There's a lot of interest during the Polish holidays in January and we usually get plenty of bookings in February too," explains the director of the best hotel in Pec, Karel Rada.
January this year has been a nice surprise, as we're already sixty-percent booked up.
Colder weather is forecast for Thursday, so if anything falls, it should be snow.
USA: Repetition is the mother of wisdom
It's almost funny to see how Barack Obama, reputedly the wisest president, is trying so hard in the matter of the Afghan war to repeat the strategy of his predecessor, having himself considered him to be the most foolish.
When he finally came out with his long-awaited Afghan doctrine, it appeared that he had made a carbon copy of Bush's Iraq scenario three years earlier.
It's not just that in the text itself he repeatedly uses the words "just like in Iraq", but he even went as far as to use the name of Bush's declaration from January 2007 as the title of his own declaration:"The new way forward".
While three years ago he himself criticised Bush's idea to send fresh troops to help in the beleaguered civil war in Iraq as "an irresponsible decision with catastrophic consequences".
The following months, however, showed that Bush's strategy, which was recommended by his field commanders, was the only possible course of action and so successful that there are no reports in the news about Iraq.
It didn't help Bush's reputation, but in objective terms, it left his successor in a much more favourable position than might be expected.
Barack Obama hopes that, in Afghanistan, the miracle will repeat itself.
He was again asked to increase the military contingent by his field commanders, particularly the supreme commander of the Afghan operation General Stanley McChrystal, who even went against the custom of his subordinates to harshly criticise the reluctant gunners in the White House.
He asked for 40 thousand men to turn the situation around.
The president hesitated for three months, but failed to come up with anything better, and so at least the general did out of 10 thousand soldiers.
He managed to squeeze a promise out of Europe for another 5 thousand, even though he himself was originally counting on 10.
The trickiest aspect of Obama's strategy seems to be his plan to start pulling troops out of Afghanistan within 18 months and to finish the process within three years. Obama's doctrine as a whole calls for more questions than it answers.
Many doubt that this half-hearted increase will bear the same fruit as the action plan in Iraq.
Despite the internecine war of recent years, Iraqi society is relatively firm on its feet and its leaders have been honouring the treaties.
The Afghan situation is just the opposite - nobody can be relied upon and no treaties are being upheld.
In these conditions, it is hard for the Afghan security forces to prepare, being so used to changing leaders to suit themselves.
Political institutions, no matter how formally they might be set up, will be nothing more than a Potemkin village in which patriarchal tribal relations will run wild.
Balancing the interests of a variety of ethnic groups is unusually difficult due to the tricky relations between them, a fact which is further complicated by the influence of Pakistan and Iran.
Even building an "operational state", which is the most basic aim of the entire operation, does not seem particularly feasible.
The timing of Obama's strategy is foiled by his voluntarism.
Over the last eight years, the situation in Afghanistan has just gotten worse and worse, and is now on the verge of exploding.
Only a truly romantic soul, totally unaffected by reality, could believe that the soldiers sent into the turmoil of this war for an "early return home" will bring about any miracles here.
From a political viewpoin,t it is pure irresponsibility setting a date for withdrawing the troops, as the Taliban will see it as indirect acknowledgement of an American defeat.
The last NATO summit showed that the willingness of the European people to take part in the operations in Afghanistan is waning.
European politicians cannot and are unwilling to explain to voters what the security of Germany or Italy has to do with the war in the foothills of the Hindu Kush.
Another factor which could radically stir things up is what is going on around Iran.
If the situation continues to get worse and increased sanctions against Iran have no effect, the United States will face the difficult question of whether to try to resolve the situation using military force or not.
This will need answering when, according to Obama, America orders the victorious withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan.
Any such solution will obviously also mean a dramatic turnaround in the Afghan situation.
The only saving grace for Barack Obama is the fact that there are three more years to the presidential elections, so there's still enough time for him to come up with another strategyif this one turns out to be a total whitewash.
Managers at Goldman Sachs no longer to receive cash bonuses
The top management of the American bank Goldman Sachs will not receive their bonuses in cash this year.
The announcement came from the company as a reaction to the harsh criticism of their salary policies.
Instead of money, the group of 30 top managers will receive shares, which cannot be sold for another five years.
The shares can also be confiscated if the managers take excessive risks.
According to Reuters, Goldman Sachs is leading the effort to link Wall Street bonuses with long-term performance.
I assume that Wall Street is well aware of the broader path it has to take, said former investment banker for JPMorgan, Douglas Elliott.
The problem lies in the details, he added.
Goldman Sachshas been targeted by critics since it set aside almost 17 billion dollars (almost 300 billion crowns) for bonuses in the first three quarters of this year.
Reuters claims that the total bonuses awarded by the business this year, despite today's announcement, exceeds 20 billion dollars.
High bonuses in the banking sector, what with the economic crisis, have become a political hot potato.
On Wednesday, Britain announced that it had decided to charge a one-off fifty percent tax rate on bankers' bonuses exceeding 25,000 pounds (around 712,000 CZK).
France is preparing similar measures.
This year, women were awarded the Nobel Prize in all fields except physics
In Stockholm today, a record five women received Nobel Prizes from the Swedish king Carl XVI Gustaf in the professional categories and for literature.
The Nobel Prize for medicine went to two American biologists, Elizabeth Blackburn and Carol Greider, together with their fellow countryman Jack Szostak, for their research in chromosomes.
The prize for chemistry was won by the Israeli Ada Jonath, together with the Americans Venkatraman Ramakrishnan and Thomas Steitz, for their work to clarify the structure and function of ribosomes.
The last award was the Nobel Prize for Economics, which went to the Americans Elinor Ostrom and Oliver Williamson for their analysis of economic management.
The only specialised category which nobody won this year was physics.
Today, this prize was won by the scientists Charles Kao, for his research in optical fibres, and George Smith and Willard Boyle, for inventing the CCD ship, which is the basis for all digital cameras, faxes, and astronomical telescopes.
All the winners received a diploma, the Nobel Medal, and a certificate for a monetary reward.
In each category, this award totals ten million Swedish krona (approximately 25 million CZK).
If there are multiple winners, they share the prize money between them.
Traditionally, the most highly-anticipated award, the Nobel Peace Prize, went to the American president Barack Obama in the Norwegian city of Oslo this afternoon.
In his speech, he acknowledged that the award was controversial, as he is just starting out in office and, moreover, heads a country which is currently at war in two countries - Iraq and Afghanistan.
In defence of his policy he added, however, that these wars were essential in order to bring about peace, despite the high cost.
Minister Janota considers resignation. Klaus invites him to the Castle
It is assumed that the budget and also Janota's possible continuation in office will be the topic of Friday's meeting.
The budget has also been criticised by Klaus.
He claims the deficit is too high, which is worsening the public funding crisis.
The meeting was announced by the president's spokesman Radim Ochvat.
Janota wants to discuss his future on Monday with the Prime Minister, Jan Fischer.
According to the Budget Act, which Klaus is due to sign, the Czech Republic should get by with a deficit of 163 billion crowns.
However, on Wednesday, the House approved the left's proposals to transfer funds, gave state employees a pay rise, and allocated extra money for social services and for direct payments to farmers.
The government criticised the social democrats' proposals, saying that they will surreptitiously increase the budget deficit.
Critics claim that the budget, as approved by the House, essentially does away with the package of saving measures put into effect by Fischer's government in autumn and which it believes should stop the state falling deeper into debt.
At a breakfast meeting with entrepreneurs today, Klaus, who is behind the state budget law but is not obliged to sign it, declared that politicians have long been neglecting a "serious problem," which is the "unsustainable deficit level" of public finances.
Now, he claims, there is no good solution to this.
The only thing that could improve the situation is a strong government which could fall back on the broader consensus of the political parties, the president says.
In response to this, Premier Fischer described this statement as "strong words."
The People's Party was also satisfied.
Mandela played by Morgan Freeman in Clint Eastwood's new film
South Africans claim that the new Hollywood film Invictus will tell the world a lot about their country, its struggle and its victories, despite some people criticising the fact that the main roles are played by American actors.
It is a story about sport, race relations, and Nelson Mandela.
The life of the tireless fighter against the racist system of apartheid in South Africa and its first black president, Nelson Mandela, is played by the Oscar-winning American actor Morgan Freeman.
Freeman said that he had asked ninety-one-year-old Mandela if he could play him in Eastwood's film.
Another leading role in the film is played by Matt Damon.
I told him: 'If I'm going to play you, I'll need access to you".
The seventy-two-year-old actor, who won an Oscar for his role in Eastwood's boxing drama Million Dollar Baby, has already played roles such as the leader of the anti-slavery movement who eventually himself became a slave, a fictitious president of the USA, and even a god in Evan Almighty, but has only rarely portrayed someone who is still alive and means so much to people as Mandela.
The former South African statesman spent 27 years in prison for his active role in ending apartheid in South Africa.
He was released in 1990 and was then the country's president for four years.
In 1993 he was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.
Invictus is Latin for 'unconquered' and is the name of a poem by the English writer William Ernest Henley, published in 1875.
The challenge was to speak like he does.
The film tells the true story of how Nelson Mandela joined forces with the captain of the South African rugby team, Francois Pienaar, to help unify the country. The newly-elected President Mandela knows that, after apartheid, his nation will still be racially and economically divided.
He believes that he can unite people through sport, so he decides to unite the rugby players who, to the world, are outsiders.
The South African team eventually makes it through to the World Cup in 1995.
Freeman worked for several years to get Mandela's story onto the big screen.
My only aim was to play this role as realistically as possible, said Freeman.
Naturally, the greatest challenge was to speak like Mandela.
The actor said that if he and world politicians were in the same ball park, he would try to meet Mandela, go for dinner with him, and be behind the scenes with him before his speeches.
The most important thing was that he wanted to shake Mandela's hand.
I found out that when I take your hand, I draw on your energy, it flows into me, and I feel that I know how you are feeling, he said.
For me it's important to try and become a different person.
The actor said that he had six months in the tough world of rugby to prepare for the role.
It turned out to be a great surprise for him when he first met Pienaar at his home.
Despite the evident differences in the stature of the actors compared to their real-life counterparts, under Eastwood's direction, Invictus has received positive reviews and there is even talk of an Oscar nomination.
The Daily Variety film critic Todd McCarthy summed up the film by saying: "It was a great story, a very well-made film."
In the film reviews on rottentomatoes.com, Invictus has a 76 percent positive rating.
Secret of the glare over Norway solved: the Russians were testing a rocket
Strange lights of unknown origin have been seen over Norway.
Yesterday the Russian defence ministry finally admitted that it had tested an intercontinental ballistic missile not far from the Norwegian border.
However, it was another unsuccessful launch and the missile, which is known as "Bulava" and should have been the pride and glory of the Russian army, has gradually turned into a nightmare for the Russian generals and Prime Minister, Vladimir Putin.
His repeated presence at tests on the rocket has not affected the success rate of the test flights.
The Bulava has generally not lifted off or has been damaged in the air.
The Russian newspapers are describing the "Bulava" as "the flightless rocket."
The rocket that doesn't fly but lights up
This, the 13th test, started off according to plan.
But near the end of the flight there was technical damage to the missile.
Apparently the engine blew up in the rocket's third phase.
This time, the "Bulava" was launched from the atomic submarine Dmitrij Donskij, which was cruising under the surface of the White Sea.
This type of rocket can be launched from a craft which is moving and even submerged.
This makes it likely that the mysterious light over Norway, caused by an unidentified flying object, was actually the malfunctioning "Bulava."
Anyway, the Norwegians never had any doubts that it was a Russian rocket.
The generals are defending themselves this time though, claiming that it can't be described as a total failure.
The first two phases of the rocket went well, and the accident happened during the third stage.
Previously, the engines have always malfunctioned during the first phase.
Even though not one test launch has been completely error-free, the defence ministry consider only six out of the thirteen tests to have been failures.
The generals are optimistic about this almost fifty-percent success rate and keep insisting that the "Bulava" will eventually fly smoothly and will even carry up to ten hypersonic nuclear blocks weighing a total of 1.15 tons.
The legendary Fetisov signs a year's contract with CSKA Moscow aged 51
The former world champion, Olympic winner and Stanley Cup holder will help out his team, CSKA Moscow, when they need him, and will evidently be playing in the fifth KHL duel against Saint Petersburg.
Fetisov, who retired at forty in 1998, is currently the president of CSKA.
Fetisov is training regularly and has agreed to help the team.
It's not year clear whether or not the famous hockey player's comeback will be for just one match.
According to AP, if Fetisov returns to the ice, he will be the oldest Russian professional hockey player.
In the NHL, the legendary attacker Gordie Howe played for Hartford for a whole season at the age of fifty-one and scored 15 goals and 26 assists.
The oldest of the famous quintet of Fetisov, Kasatonov, Makarov, Larionov, and Krutov is one of the best and most successful hockey players of all time.
In the Soviet Union uniform, he received two Olympic gold medals, seven world championship tiles, and triumphed in the Canada Cup and the Junior World Championship.
In the second half of his career, he also enjoyed success in the NHL, when wearing the Detroit uniform, he twice raised the Stanley Cup over his head.
Since 2001, he has been a member of the Hockey Hall of Fame.
Hyundai obliges unions. All overtime is cut
It is because of all this forced overtime that the unions have declared a strike on Monday.
The management, however, wants to come to an agreement with the trade union leaders for one Saturday shift this year.
This bonus will also be paid retrospectively to those who worked on Saturday November 28th.
Additionally, all employees working the Saturday shift will have their travel expenses and lunch paid for.
Until last week, virtually every day the car plant workers had been forced to do two hours' overtime on top of their normal eight-hour shifts.
After signing the agreement, the trade unions will call off the strike
Further talks should be held between the car plant management and union leaders on Friday morning.
The situation at the plant deteriorated sharply last Wednesday when some 400 workers held a spontaneous strike to protest against the incessant overtime.
They were also protesting against bad pay conditions and alleged persecution.
The management responded by saying that employees had to work overtime to meet the demand for cars.
In Monday's announcement of the strike, the unions also asked that no sanctions be imposed against the workers who halted production last Wednesday.
The trade unions are asking the firm to keep overtime to a minimum.
Moreover, this year they are requesting that a 5000 crown bonus be paid for this work.
The firm began series production last November.
By this September, it had made around 80,000 cars, and its current capacity is 200,000 vehicles a year.
Czech discovery: a substance which works on 'tough' forms of the HIV virus
A team of Czech and German scientists has been testing a new compound which can slow the spread of the HIV virus in the body.
The main advantage of this improved substance is that it also works on viruses which have become immune to medication.
In some cases, this outweighs the fact that the compound used for the normal form of the virus does not have such a strong effect as some drugs that are already available.
No cure has yet been found for AIDS.
Patients' lives can be greatly prolonged by a mixture of drugs which prevent the HIV virus from multiplying in the body.
However, they have a number of side-effects.
Moreover, if the propagation of the virus is not completely suppressed, it can lead to the development of resistant viruses, against which drugs are no longer effective.
They have shown that substances known as metallacarboranes act on the protein responsible for the proliferation of the HIV virus.
Metallacarboranes are a compound of boron, hydrogen, carbon, and cobalt.
These compounds block the spread of the virus in a different way to all the other drugs in use today, and so they may get over the resistance problem.
Metallacarboranes have a unique three-dimensional structure: two multi-walled cages consisting of boron, hydrogen and carbon atoms are connected to a metal atom, in this case cobalt.
A treacherous and hardy virus
The HIV protease is the protein of the HIV virus, which is essential to the life-cycle of the virus.
The mature infectious viral corpuscles would not occur if the HIV virus was not split by the HIV protease.
If we can stop the HIV protease, we will also stop the virus from spreading through the patient's body, the scientists explained in a press release published by the Institute of Organic Chemistry and Biochemistry of the Czech Academy of Sciences.
In a paper published in the Journal of Medicinal Chemistry, the scientists describe a series of compounds in which there are two pairs of cages (see the diagram) connected by a short organic chain, which is then systematically modified.
Somewhat weaker, but more reliable
The effectiveness of this series of substances against the HIV protease has been tested in a test-tube, as well as its effectiveness against the more immune(resistant) strain as acquired from patients infected with the HIV virus.
The effect of metallacarboranes on the normal strain of the enzyme is not as strong as that of drugs used in clinical practice, although their effect is not diminished against the resistant strains, whereas drugs currently used are often ineffective.
Fall-out over the budget. ODS attacks Fischer, who defends himself
The government chairman described the ODS statement as strong words.
Apparently he will take some time to think about it.
On Wednesday, the House accepted the budget for 2010, naturally with the left's proposed amendments for more than 12 billion crowns.
The House gave extra money for the salaries of state employees, for social services, and for direct payments to farmers.
he government criticised the social democrats' proposals, saying that they will surreptitiously increase the budget deficit.
The Czech Republic should get by with a deficit of 163 billion crowns.
Before the vote, the ODS left the room, complying with the government's wishes that the amended budget is not as poor an option as the provisional budget.
Disappointment and futility
The finance minister, Eduard Janota, has spoken about his feeling of disappointment and futility, while Premier Jan Fischer said that the government is still assessing the current situation.
According to Czech Television, Janota has made an appointment to see the Prime Minister on Monday after the session.
At the same time, he indicated that he was rethinking his position in office.
The reason for this is his disappointment in the budget talks.
The Prime Minister should also clearly state that he will hand in his resignation if the House approves other laws that will increase the deficit, those relating to sick pay, pensions, or the amendment to the Civil Servants Act for example.
This is a matter for the ministerial chairman Fischer and the government as a whole.
He pointed out that several ministries employ people in under-secretary positions who support TOP 09, which voted against the budget.
But then he would not be able to count on the support and tolerance of the civil democrats.
This afternoon, Prime Minister Fischer flew to Brussels to attend a European Council meeting.
ODS stands down at the request of the Prime Minister
We don't look like orphans, we're not little children, was how he reacted to the question of whether the ODS was not hampered by the presence of the party chairman in the parliament and in the Czech Republic during the political negotiations regarding the budget.
I didn't notice that my vote was missing.
The new Czech Railways timetable shows that fewer trains will be running for almost the same fares
From December 13th, Czech Railways will be cancelling or restricting some less frequented express and local trains, but will be adding more services to other lines.
As of the day the new timetable comes into force, there will be two percent fewer services in comparison with now.
Most fares, including basic and special tickets, will stay the same.
More links to the capital will be available, for example, to the people in the Ostrava region, as the railways are adding one Pendolino to that line.
However, the express will stop running to Bratislava.
From December 13th, passengers will no longer be able to take Pendolino to Bratislava.
This year's cost of regional railways: 200 million more
Express trains are ordered and paid for by the Ministry of Transport, and next year it will give the railways four billion crowns to cover demonstrable losses, the same amount as this year. Local trains are ordered by the regional authorities, who, next year, will pay out a total of eight billion crowns for them, while almost three billion will be contributed by the state.
This year, regional trains are costing 200 million more.
Czech Railways have concluded a new ten-year contract for local and express trains, whereas, previously, the contract was always for one year.
The railways have praised the system, despite the fact that the great majority of fares have not been increased.
Filipino gunmen still holding more than 50 people, Children have been released
Today, gunmen in the south of the Philippines kidnapped 75 people, including several primary school students and their teachers.
This from the AFP agency, which originally announced only 65 abductees.
All 17 of the captured children, together with their teacher, were released after eight hours.
The kidnapping happened in the province of Agusan del Sur.
Around 19 gunmen are apparently using the hostages as a human shield in their escape from the police.
Local negotiators are now trying to arrange the release of the remaining hostages.
According to AFP, the gunmen are part of the New People's Army (NPA), which is the armed faction of the Communist Party of the Philippines (CPP).
According to AP, the police had originally been chasing the kidnappers following violence that occurred as accounts were settled between two local family clans.
In the province of Maguindanao, in the south of the Philippines, martial law has been declared due to the recent massacre which left 57 people dead.
The victims of the massacre on November 23rd, which was related to the elections for governor, included 30 reporters.
The governor of this southern Filipino province has been arrested on suspicion of involvement in the massacre, together with his father Andal Ampatuan, the patriarch of the influential Ampatuan family.
Muslim separatists are also active on Mindanao.
But on Tuesday, these separatists renewed peace talks with the Filipino government.
The story of South Africa affects everyone, says Morgan Freeman alias Mandela
In the next few days, the new Hollywood film Invictus by Clint Eastwood will hit American cinemas, depicting part of the life of the former South African president Nelson Mandela.
The role of the world-famous opponent of apartheid is taken on by Morgan Freeman, who was apparently chosen years ago by Mandela himself for his talent.
The supporting male role of the legendary South African rugby champion Francois Pienaar is played by Matt Damon.
With the film in cinemas critics and the public
Nelson Mandela
Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela was born on July 18th, 1918 in Mvez, in South Africa.
In 1988 he was awarded the Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought, and in 1993 received the Nobel Peace Prize with de Klerk.
He was president of South Africa from 1994 to 1999.
There were great expectations, as he appeared in public at a time when not only was South Africa busy preparing for the football world championship, but the media was also rife with worrying news about increasing racial hatred and discrimination by the black majority.
According to the AP news agency, the response to the new film has so far been generally positive in South Africa, despite the number of objections to "brat-pack" Hollywood stars being cast in the main roles.
However, despite what he says, Morgan Freeman is proud of the new film.
I had dreamt about this role for many years and prepared for it well.
I met Nelson Mandela many times to, as they say, draw on his energy, he said in an interview after the film's grand premiere in Los Angeles.
I think it's good that we can commemorate Mandela and his mission in a film.
It is a story about South Africa, but it affects everybody, he added.
In the national rugby team uniform
The film, based on the book by the British writer John Carlin, entitled Playing the Enemy: Nelson Mandela and the Game that Made a Nation, portrays the South African human rights activist during his first presidential election campaign.
In the film, Morgan Freeman tries to unite the two races and the populations that had so long been segregated and, like Nelson Mandela did in 1995, appears in the film in the South African national rugby uniform at the world cup match, which was won by South Africa.
For appearing in the kit, which is an almost sacred symbol in South Africa, fourteen years ago, Mandela received a standing ovation from the predominantly white spectators and gained the esteem of the white people.
Perhaps a football championship can actually bring people together as one nation, said rugby player Chester Williams, who in 1995 was the only black person on the national team.
Whether the tense situation in South Africa will improve is only now becoming apparent.
White South Africans, however, are sceptical, as rugby fan Christopher Dawson, who fled the country to go to Britain, admitted in a recent interview for LN.
The championship begins on June 11th, 2010.
Transformer worth tens of millions of crowns burns in Louny region
Originally, the firefighters wanted to let the transformer burn, but later changed their minds and are putting the fire out using a mix of water, foam, and special fire-suppression agents.
The fire was caused by a technical fault, a short circuit inside the transformer.
The damage is estimated at several tens of millions of crowns, although the exact figure will not be known until the fire has been extinguished.
It maintains, restores and develops 39 switching stations with 67 transformers converting electricity from the transmission system to the distribution system, as well as 4339 kilometres of power lines.
The suit relates to the company's attempts to operate regional trains in certain regions.
However, all the regions eventually signed a long-term contract with Czech Railways.
So now all three commissioners are attacking us and saying that we're getting the best out of it, while the offer we put forward was just what they themselves wanted.
They claim that we're more expensive than Czech Railways, which is not true, as we know the Czech Railways prices that were concluded last week.
So all we can do is defend ourselves.
He also said that he has proof from all the regional authorities that they did not act in accordance with European law.
He is therefore preparing a motion for the European Commission.
It's understandable that I'm prepared to defend my good name and that of my region, and I call upon the other commissioners to do the same.
He specified that the campaign would fight corruption as such.
The only threat was that if we don't stop this, we could lose our bus licence.
Vaccinations against pneumococcus will be free and voluntary.
Starting January, vaccinations against pneumococcus will radically change ingrained habits.
These should be the first free yet voluntary vaccinations for families.
But some are saying that compulsory vaccinations would be more effective.
Preparations for the introduction of free anti-pneumococcus vaccinations are reaching a peak.
The pharmaceutical institute is already setting the maximum price for vaccines to be paid for by health insurance companies.
Experts are now clear on how to proceed with the vaccinations.
New vaccinations
Vaccines free of charge for children born in August
Starting January, there could be free anti-pneumococcus vaccinations for children born on or after August 2nd.
The condition is that they have not received any prior vaccinations.
Anyone who began to be vaccinated last year or earlier will have to pay for any later re-vaccinations.
The first batch of vaccinations must be given when the child is between 3 and 5 months old.
Last year, one in four families had their children voluntarily vaccinated against pneumococcus.
Parents paid 1600 crowns or more per vaccination.
The youngest children require four vaccinations.
Overall, experts estimate that health insurance companies spend 300 to 450 thousand crowns a year on vaccinations.
But they save on the treatment that unvaccinated children would otherwise need.
So far, the state has been paying around 500 thousand crowns a year on all general vaccinations for children.
Subsidised vaccinations were introduced as part of the Janota package.
Pneumococcus causes infections of the middle ear, but also serious infections of the cerebral membranes and blood poisoning.
Pneumococcal infections claim the lives of up to 28 children under the age of ten every year, according to hospital figures.
Besides the Czech Republic, around 40 countries have introduced general anti-pneumococcus vaccinations for children.
Will vaccinations be compulsory?
Some believe that in the future these vaccinations could be compulsory.
As of January, they should be paid for by the insurance companies and not compulsory.
His association has long been promoting pneumococcus vaccines.
The specialists at the international conference that our association attended were not very happy to hear that we have voluntary vaccinations.
It's not completely ideal.
On the other hand, we're happy that we managed to get at least these voluntary vaccinations in place.
The Ministry of Health, however, does not want to change the pneumococcus vaccination system.
Voluntary vaccinations have their drawbacks, say doctors
Experts assume that, starting next year, more than 80 percent of new parents will have their babies vaccinated against pneumococcus.
The anti-pneumococcus vaccinations are a milestone in that they are the first general vaccinations for children to be paid for by the insurance companies, not the state.
Doctors will have to buy vaccines themselves
However, practising paediatricians are concerned when it comes to buying the vaccines.
According to the original plan, the vaccines would be purchased by the insurance companies, and doctors would receive them in the same way that the state issues drugs for other vaccinations.
Some ministers, however, are worried that the insurance companies could "run wild with health insurance funds".
So doctors will have to buy the vaccines and wait until the insurance companies refund the money.
It is estimated that practising paediatricians will have to spend 40 thousand a month on vaccines, which is a lot of money.
US artist's son 'in museum theft'
Police in Pennsylvania say Alfonso Frank Frazetta was caught loading 90 paintings into his vehicle and trailer.
They say Mr Frazetta and another man used an excavator to break into the museum in the Pocono Mountains region.
Mr Frazetta Snr, aged 81, is famed for his depiction of characters such as Conan the Barbarian and Tarzan.
The artist was in Florida at the time of the incident, the Associated Press news agency reported.
AP quoted an unnamed police official as saying the younger Mr Frazetta may have been motivated by a family feud.
A police affidavit said Mr Frazetta Jnr, 52, claimed he had been instructed by his father to "enter the museum by any means necessary to move all the paintings to a storage facility", the agency reported.
Mr Frazetta Snr denied granting any such permission, the agency said.
Labour defends budget tax rises
Ministers have defended the tax rises and spending cuts announced in the pre-Budget report against criticism from the opposition, business and unions.
The Tories said Alistair Darling "blew" an opportunity to show he was serious about cutting the deficit by delaying decisions until after the election.
The chancellor also came under fire for hitting low and middle income workers.
Among his headline proposals are a 0.5% rise in National Insurance and a 1% cap on public pay settlements from 2011.
National Insurance anger
Unions have protested that low-paid workers are being penalised for a recession not of their making and warned of "problems" ahead.
KEY POINTS OF PBR
National Insurance up by a further 0.5% from April 2011
Economy to shrink by worse than expected 4.75% this year
New 50% tax on banker bonuses
1p rise in corporation tax for small firms scrapped
Tax rebates for electric cars and wind turbines
State pension to rise by 2.5%
Ministers said their target of halving the deficit by 2013 meant "difficult decisions" but insisted that 60% of the burden of extra taxes would fall upon the top 5% of earners.
Treasury minister Stephen Timms denied the tax rises and spending cuts outlined were a "drop in the ocean" compared to what was needed.
"These are large numbers. They will deliver for us this halving of the deficit which is absolutely essential over the next four years," he told the BBC.
Mr Timms said he was confident the economy would return to growth by the turn of the year.
However, Labour forecasts for future economic growth - which will influence the amount it has to borrow and how quickly he deficit is cut - have been questioned after the chancellor was forced to revise earlier figures.
'Blown opportunity'
Mnisters had failed to lay out a credible plan for how they would pay this back, they added, "cynically" ducking tough choices until after the election - which must be held by June 2010.
"They have not included anything of significance they are going to do," said shadow Treasury minister Philip Hammond. "They had an opportunity to do it and they have blown it."
" The all important announcements will come after the election, whoever wins it "
Roger Bootle, Deloitte
Labour insist that schools, hospitals and the police will be protected from future cuts unlike under Tory proposals which would see the deficit cut faster and further.
But the Lib Dems said the money raised by tax rises and spending cuts would be used to support spending next year not to reduce the deficit, arguing the plans were "built on sand".
The BBC's political editor Nick Robinson said some of the timing of the announcements - such as the above inflation increase in some disability benefits next April - would leave the chancellor open to accusations of electioneering as the money may simply be clawed back the year after.
However, Labour insist the extra help is being provided when people need it most and the situation will be reviewed in September 2010.
'Phoney budget'
Although ministers did not publish spending details for beyond 2011, economists said it was clear the squeeze on public spending would only begin to bite in the medium term.
The respected Institute for Fiscal Studies said the chancellor's figures implied substantial cuts in many areas, potentially including transport, higher education, science and defence, in the future.
"It really is holding off the pain until later," said its director Robert Chote.
"The all important announcements will come after the election, whoever wins it," added Roger Bootle, economic adviser to accountants Deloitte.
"This has been the phoney pre-Budget report. The markets realise this."
FBI probes 'US Pakistan arrests'
The FBI is investigating the arrest in Pakistan of five reported US men on suspicion of extremist links.
The men were arrested in a raid on a house in Sarghoda in eastern Punjab province, Pakistan's US embassy told the BBC.
The FBI has said it is investigating whether they are the same men who were reported missing from their homes in the US state of Virginia last month.
The US State Department said it was also seeking information on the men.
Three of them are reported to be of Pakistani descent, one of Egyptian heritage and the other of a Yemeni background.
"If they are American citizens, we of course are going to be very interested in the charges that they've been detained on and in what sort of circumstances they're being held," said spokesman Ian Kelly.
FBI spokeswoman Katherine Schweit said the agency was aware of the arrests and was in contact with the families of the missing students.
"We are working with Pakistan authorities to determine their identities and the nature of their business there, if indeed these are the students who had gone missing," she said.
The Pakistani embassy in Washington said the men were arrested in a house belonging to an uncle of one of them.
He said the house was already of interest to local police and that no charges had yet been filed against the arrested men.
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton declined to comment on the arrests, reported the Reuters news agency, but said the US had to "work more closely with both Afghanistan and Pakistan to try to root out the infrastructure of terrorism that continues to recruit and train people".
The five students were reported missing from their homes in northern Virginia by their families in late November.
Amnesty condemns Iranian 'abuses'
Human rights in Iran are as poor as at any time over the past 20 years, according to a report from campaign group Amnesty International.
The report details "patterns of abuse" by the regime before and after disputed presidential elections in June.
One man quoted in the report said he had been beaten and burned with cigarettes. Another said he was threatened with rape.
Iran has dismissed previous criticism of its human rights record.
Officials have said such criticism is politically motivated.
Thousands of people were arrested and dozens killed in Iran after the disputed election of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad led to the largest street protests since the 1979 Islamic Revolution.
Dozens have been given jail terms, and prosecutors say at least five people have been sentenced to death.
BBC Tehran correspondent, Jon Leyne, who is now in London, says that early in the protests, the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, accepted some of the allegations of abuse, ordering the closure of the Kahrizak detention centre.
But since then, there has been almost no tolerance of criticism by the authorities, our correspondent says.
'False confession'
Amnesty International cited the account of 26-year-old computing student Ebrahim Mehtari, who said he was accused of "working with Facebook networks" and protesting against the election result.
"They frequently beat me on the face," he was quoted as saying.
"I was burned with cigarettes under my eyes, on the neck, head... They threatened to execute me and they humiliated me."
After five days he signed a false confession and was taken out and left in the street, still bleeding and semi-conscious, Amnesty said.
In August, defeated presidential candidate Mehdi Karroubi said some protesters detained after the election had been tortured to death in prison and others had been raped.
Iranian officials denied the rape claims, but admitted that abuses had taken place.
Amnesty also cited the case of a former detainee who said he was held in a container with 75 others for more than eight weeks at a detention centre at Kahrizak.
Amnesty accepted that the Iranian parliament and judiciary had established committees to investigate the post-election unrest and the government's response, but it said the mandate and powers of the bodies were unclear and the parliamentary committee's findings had not been made public.
The group said at least 90 people had been arrested in the past three weeks to forestall further demonstrations.
Ski slope is created in city park
More than 100 tonnes of artificial snow were used to turn a Bristol landmark into a piste for a competition.
The Piste in the Park event attracted 16 semi-professional skiers and snow borders competing for cash prizes.
At the top of the slope in Brandon Hill park there was a short jump ramp before a 100m-long slope.
Fourth-year medical student John Hickman said there was a beautiful view from the top of the slope but it was pretty daunting.
It's a beautiful view with all the city lights below all twinkling.
There's some of the best skiers and snow borders in the county here - some real talent," he added.
Prizes were awarded for the best tricks - or manoeuvres performed on the slope.
After Thursday evening's event the snow will be left to melt away.
Still them and us
Can Islam Be French?
Pluralism and Pragmatism in a Secularist State.
As a good anthropologist, he wants to know not just what the politicians and the media are saying about Islam in France, but what is actually happening on the ground.
He is a good listener, reproducing debates between teachers and students about the questions that concern them most.
Should a Muslim get married in a mosque or a town hall (or both)?
Should young Muslims be taught about evolution and gay rights?
Can a Muslim woman marry a non-Muslim man?
Is it legitimate for a Muslim to use an interest-based banking system to get a mortgage?
It is these seemingly mundane issues, he argues, that are the stuff of daily life rather than the political dramas that preoccupy the media.
The author identifies a new generation of imams, teachers and intellectuals, none of them household names, with the possible exception of Tariq Ramadan, a Swiss-born Arab Muslim scholar and academic.
This new generation is trying to open up the debate about how to be both a good Muslim and a good citizen in a modern secular society.
They are not having the argument all their way.
Conservatives are suspicious of the very idea of a French or European Islam.
Mr Bowen thinks that Muslim values and French secularism could be compatible.
But accommodation requires give-and-take on both sides.
He suggests that Muslims are probably getting a rawer deal than the Catholics, Protestants and Jews who have also had to make their historic compromises with secular republicanism.
Rather than a growing pragmatism, he detects a "tightening of the value-screws".
Can Islam be French? After reading this book, one is inclined to say, "Yes, but not yet."
The bleakest outlook in the world
THE Arctic is changing faster and more dramatically than any other environment on the planet.
The ice that defines it is melting with alarming speed, taking with it life that can survive nowhere else.
Oil, gas, shipping and fishing interests have been heading into the newly open water, with diplomats, lawyers, and now authors, in their wake.
In "On Thin Ice" Richard Ellis, a writer and illustrator, paints a natural history of the icon of the north, the polar bear.
Well-versed in the complicated history and politics of whaling, he describes the long tradition of Arctic explorers who proved themselves by taking on the white bear.
Young bears, captured as they swam after the bodies of their newly killed mothers, were caught and sent to zoos and circuses.
One early 20th-century big-top act featured 75 polar bears at once.
Click here to find out more!
Mr Ellis draws on the accounts of other writers and historians, and often returns to the threat that hunters pose to the survival of the species.
Although banned in Norway, America and Russia, the killing continues in Greenland and Canada, where hunters in helicopters and skidoo-riding Inuit Indians both use high-powered assault rifles to bring down their quarry.
Ironically it is in the waters towards the north of those two hunting nations that the ice will last longest.
In his new book, "After the Ice", Alun Anderson, a former editor of New Scientist, offers a clear and chilling account of the science of the Arctic and a gripping glimpse of how the future may turn out there.
Not that scientists have all the answers.
Neither atmospheric scientists nor oceanographers can adequately account for the speed of the changes.
It is not for want of trying.
Cold-war submarines then mapped the shifting ridges running beneath it.
Satellite surveys and large arrays of iceberg-mounted probes are a useful addition, but much is still done by hardy individuals camped out in the cold.
Mr Anderson looks in on the extraordinary, tiny world of the tributary system within the Arctic ice, formed by trickles of briny water which gets squeezed as it freezes.
But from the bear above to the microscopic wonders within, all are doomed once the summer ice goes, which is expected to happen at some point between 2013 and 2050.
'In a few months...this could be us'
Marines among 6,000 who place wreaths on graves at Arlington
Pfc. De'Angello Robinson, 19, traveled seven hours by bus to place a single wreath on the tomb of a soldier whom he'd never met.
For him, and the other Marines who took the trip from Camp Johnson in Jacksonville, N.C. to Arlington National Cemetery to decorate graves, the day was about paying tribute to men and women who once stood in their shoes.
In a few months, from where we are getting shipped out, this could be us, said Robinson of the fallen soldiers.
If it is us, I would want somebody to do the same for me so I'm just trying to show respect.
He was one of more than 6,000 volunteers who gathered Saturday morning to place wreaths on veterans' gravesites across several sections of Arlington Ceremony.
In 1992, Morrill Worcester, owner of Worcester Wreath Company in Harrington, Maine, began the event when he and several others decided to decorate several hundred gravesites at Arlington Ceremony.
Now an 18-year-old tradition, Morrill and his wife Karen, make the trip every year stopping in different cities along the way to host events dedicated to the people in the military and victims of terrorism.
The Worcesters also founded a non-profit, Wreaths Across America, which has spread the event across other states.
This year, volunteers placed more than 16,000 wreaths on the graves at Arlington Cemetery, areas at the Pentagon, graves at Fayetteville National Cemetery in Arkansas, Battery Park in New York City and on the memorial site for United Airlines Flight 93 in Shanksville, Pa.
For the second year, the Walmart Foundation donated more than $150,000 to purchase, and transport the wreaths.
Charleen Hunt, 70, of Westminster, said she made the trip to Arlington in honor of her husband, a deceased career military man.
While her husband is not buried at Arlington, Hunt said this was her way of giving back to those who made sacrifices.
It's a small way civilians can support our troops, she said.
It's like visiting a family gravesite.
Wrapped in layers of warm clothing, volunteers walked across the cemetery's expansive lawns and hills.
Volunteers targeted older tombs from World War I, World War II, and the war in Vietnam because they are not visited as often as newer graves, organizers said.
The mood was upbeat as children played and couples held hands while carrying the fresh pine to the graying tombstones.
Each circular wreath was a deep green with a small red bow fastened across the top.
Nearby, Section 60, where most veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan are buried, remained virtually silent.
The United Service Organizations donated 1,000 wreaths to decorate the section but the somber mood of the current wars filled the area.
Individuals openly wept, others prayed, and families and friends held each other in the frigid air.
Some read aloud names carved into the stones while others bowed to see small black and white place cards pushed inside wet mud for those whose tombstones have not yet been completed.
Sandra Lockwood was one of the many mothers wiping tears from her eyes in front of her son's grave.
She drove eight hours from Zanesfield, Ohio to visit the gravesite of Marine Gunnery Sgt. David Shane Spicer who died in combat in July.
Nobody should ever forget why we're free. . .my son paid for that, she said.
"When I'm long gone, I want someone to remember him."
U.S. government contractor arrested by Cuban officials
The Cuban government has arrested a U.S. government contractor who was distributing cellphones and laptop computers in the country, State Department officials said Saturday.
The contractor, who has not yet been identified, works for Development Alternatives Inc., based in Bethesda.
The company works on projects for clients such as the U.S. Agency for International Development and the World Bank.
Consular officers with the U.S. Interest Section in Havana are seeking access to the detainee, who was arrested Dec. 5.
The specific charges have not been made public, though under Cuban law, a Cuban citizen or a foreign visitor can be arrested for nearly anything under the claim of "dangerousness."
All so-called counter-revolutionary activities, which include mild protests and critical writings, carry the risk of arrest.
Anti-government graffiti and speech are considered serious crimes.
The detention of an American contractor may likely raise tensions between the Castro brothers Communist government in Cuba and the Obama administration, which has been pursuing a "go-slow" approach to improving relations with the island.
News of the arrest was first reported by the New York Times Friday night.
The new U.S. policy stresses that if the Cuban government takes concrete steps, such as freeing political prisoners and creating more space for opposition, the United States will reciprocate.
Cellphones and laptops are legal in Cuba, though they are new and coveted commodities in a country where the average wage of a government worker is $15 a month.
The Cuban government granted ordinary citizens the right to buy cellphones just this year; they are used mostly for texting, as a 15-minute telephone conversation would eat up a day's wages.
Internet use is extremely limited on the island.
It is available in expensive hotels and to foreign visitors there, and at some government outlets, such as universities.
Cubans who want to log on often have to give their names to the government.
Access to many Web sites is restricted.
The detention of an American in Cuba is rare.
Most of the handful of U.S. citizens in jail in Cuba are behind bars for crimes such as drug smuggling, said Gloria Berbena, the press officer at the U.S. Interests Section in Havana.
Berbena said she could not provide more information on the arrest.
The arrest and detention are clearly wrong.
An activity that in any other open society would be legal -- giving away free cellphones -- is in Cuba a crime, said Jose Miguel Vivanco, director of the Americas program of the group Human Rights Watch, which recently issued a tough report on freedoms in Cuba called "New Castro, Same Cuba," a reference to the installation of Raul Castro as the leader of the country to replace his ailing older brother Fidel.
Vivanco said that the accused are often arrested, tried and imprisoned in a day.
He said that any solution would likely be political and that the Cuban government often provokes a negative reaction in the United States just as the two countries begin to move toward more dialogue.
Pakistani officials unraveling plot to send men to Afghanistan
Pakistani authorities on Saturday zeroed in on the alleged mastermind of a plot to send five Northern Virginia men to Afghanistan to kill U.S. troops, saying they hope the case could help unravel an extensive network of terrorist recruiters who scour the Internet for radicalized young men.
Investigators said they were hunting for a shadowy insurgent figure known as Saifullah, who invited the men to Pakistan after first discovering them when one made comments approving of terror attacks on the Internet video site YouTube.
Saifullah guided the men once they were in Pakistan, attempting to help them reach the remote area in Pakistan's tribal belt that is home to al-Qaeda and its terrorist training camps.
But a Pakistani intelligence official who had been briefed on the case said Saturday that Saifullah was unsuccessful in convincing al-Qaeda commanders that the men were not part of a CIA plot to infiltrate the terrorist network.
As a result, they were marooned for days in the eastern city of Sargodha, far from the forbidding mountains of the northwest that have become a terrorist haven.
They were regarded as a sting operation.
That's why they were rejected, said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the case.
The official said the men were undeterred and were still trying to acquire the right endorsements to gain access to the al-Qaeda camps when they were arrested by Pakistani law enforcement.
The case of the five -- who remain in Pakistan and are being questioned by the FBI -- underscores the critical role of recruiters in identifying potential terrorists and, perhaps more importantly, determining who can be trusted.
Since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, U.S. intelligence has made it a top priority to try to place human assets inside al-Qaeda.
The organization's recruiters act as gatekeepers, keeping out those who are not serious about their commitment to holy war, and those who could be spies.
Would-be American recruits are treated by al-Qaeda with special scrutiny, analysts said.
But they are also considered enormously appealing to the group because of their potential to access U.S. targets and because of their propaganda value.
But Evan Kohlmann, senior analyst with the U.S.-based NEFA Foundation, said terror groups have also become much more cautious in recent years about who they allow in because U.S. intelligence agencies have become experts in their recruiting methods.
If you're trying to sink someone into these groups, what better way than to follow the recruitment model that so many have already followed? Kohlmann said.
The model is one that has become far more Web-based.
Tens of thousands protest in Copenhagen, demand climate 'action'
Tens of thousands of protesters marched on the streets here Saturday, demanding bolder action on climate from the negotiators working inside the city's Bella Convention Center.
Protesters said as many 100,000 people joined in the event, but police estimated the count was closer to 25,000.
The event was relatively peaceful, though a handful of masked activists set off small explosives near a group of government buildings downtown.
On a day when little happened in the U.N.-sponsored climate talks, thousands of activists walked across the city holding banners in English saying "There is No Planet B" and one in Spanish declaring, "The Earth is Saying, 'Enough.'
Several celebrities joined the protest, including Danish model and photographer Helena Christensen, who said that traveling to her mother's native country of Peru made me aware of the heartbreaking issues the country is dealing with due to the impacts of climate changes that are already occurring."
This is part of the reason why I have decided to join the big march -- to pass on the word and to appeal to the world's leaders to deliver a fair, ambitious and binding deal, she said.
It is not an easy task, but it needs to be done, there is no way around it anymore.
The police kept the protesters from getting too close to the Bella center, and said they had arrested 19 people, primarily on the grounds that they had either worn masks or carried pocket knives.
Those activities are banned during demonstrations under Danish law.
According to one bystander, who asked not to be identified because he is involved in the climate talks, activists sporting masks and black outfits set off several explosives near Copenhagen's main canal, which is nearby several ministries.
They were lobbing them by the buildings, he said, adding they began as flares but were followed by "a couple big explosions."
Inside the convention center, people gathered around television screens to watch the march throughout the afternoon.
But the protest did not seem to penetrate the consciousness of key officials such as Su Wei, China's chief climate negotiator.
When asked whether he thought the demonstration was having a constructive impact on the international deliberations, he replied in English, "Actually, that is something that I was not aware of."
He then continued in Mandarin, saying, "Because the venue is large, I cannot hear what is happening outside."
He observed that whether the march was hurting or helping depended on one's perspective.
It shows the concentration of the general public and different sectors on the subject of climate change, he said.
On the other hand, "You can also say that they disrupt the negotiations, or the freedom of other people.
Test data reveal stubborn racial gaps
Last week's federal report card on math achievement was a welcome piece of good news for D.C. public schools.
Although the District still lags far behind the country's top-performing systems, the report card showed fourth- and eighth-graders making strides at a faster pace over the past two years than cities including Atlanta, Chicago and New York.
But what remains embedded in the latest numbers from the National Assessment of Educational Progress is the persistent achievement gap between African American and white students both locally and nationally.
The average scores of white D.C. fourth-graders over the past two years grew from 262 to 270 (on a scale of 500), but their African American peers' rose just three points, from 209 to 212.
The achievement gap actually grew between 2007 and 2009, from 53 to 58 points.
African American progress in the eighth grade remained essentially flat, dipping a statistically insignificant one point, from 245 to 244.
Average white scores were not included in the test results because the sample size wasn't large enough.
The picture across a six-year stretch isn't more encouraging.
The gap separating white and black fourth-graders in 2003, when the first NAEP in the District was given, was 60 scale points (262 to 202).
Although the scores achieved by children in both groups have increased during this period, the difference has barely narrowed to 58.
Some education advocates in the District expressed concern last week that the gains celebrated by Chancellor Michelle A. Rhee and Mayor Adrian M. Fenty (D) were propelled largely by white students who are already high achievers.
It would suggest that we've raised the aggregate by treating those at the higher end of the scale, which is problematic and troublesome, said Jeff Smith, executive director of D.C. Voice, a nonprofit group that advocates for educational equality in the District.
I'm not jumping up and down about a two- or three-point spread, said D.C. Council member Kwame R. Brown (D-At Large), who has a daughter in the fourth grade at Eaton Elementary.
A frequent critic of Rhee's management style, Brown said the message of the test scores is that the city's middle schools are in desperate need of attention.
Clearly, you always want to see the plus signs, and I respect that.
But what's scary is we're not spending nearly the time and energy we need to spend on our middle schools.
Rhee said the District needs to continue to find better ways to address the needs of low-achieving students.
This fall, for example, some teachers are being trained to use a new reading curriculum, the Wilson Reading System, targeted to students in the upper elementary and middle school grades who didn't master the basics of reading early in their school careers and are significantly behind their peers.
Everyday Mathematics, a K-through-sixth-grade math curriculum emphasizing games and real-life experiences that was brought to the District under former superintendent Clifford Janey, is credited with some of the NAEP progress reported last week.
I just think we have to keep working at bringing the best interventions to those students who are below grade level, Rhee said.
Others say that the NAEP's results highlight the question of whether Rhee can continue to lift the overall performance of the system and still provide the additional money and resources for low-performing schools that will be necessary to narrow the gap.
There is a sort of rough-edged dilemma here for Michelle Rhee, said Bruce Fuller, an education professor at the University of California at Berkeley who studies urban test scores.
The conventional policy remedy is to target your resources and management reforms on schools located in the poorest sections of D.C.
So the targeting may yield political repercussions that go against that important agenda.
But the rub, of course, is like other urban superintendents, she's trying to hold on to the white and black middle class.
Our focus is on ensuring that we build a system of great schools.
We need to strengthen our neighborhood schools so that all families, regardless of where they live, are confident that their children can get an excellent public education.
Janey, now superintendent of schools in Newark, said in an interview this week that one essential element to closing the achievement gap is to lengthen the traditional public school year, currently 180 days in the District, to compete with charter schools.
You have to get up near 200 days to have the force of change, said Janey, who came to agreement with his teachers' union last year on a 185-day year, which he regards as "a marker" for seeking a bigger increase in the next contract.
Making higher education a part of more futures
The tour bus pulled into Gettysburg College with a loud wheeze.
Graciela Rodriguez, 12, stepped off and blinked for a moment at the white columns, brick facades and emerald lawns.
Graciela's parents had barely graduated from high school in El Salvador.
Until recently, Graciela herself, who was born in Silver Spring and lives in Riverdale, had never set foot on a college campus.
Yet as she and the other eighth-graders in the group explored Gettysburg, where the tuition runs $38,690 a year, their attitude was less that of awestruck visitors than of enthusiastic prospective students.
Yes! This is where I'll be! exclaimed Graciela, who would like to study medicine, when the guide announced that they'd entered the science building.
Wow, really? she said thoughtfully, when told of the school's low professor-to-student ratio.
The Pennsylvania college was the seventh the kids had visited on their three-day tour, and by now they had completely absorbed its intended message: The question is not whether you're going to college.
The question is where.
Although there is mounting concern about the large number U.S.-born children of Hispanic immigrants who drop out of high school or get pregnant as teenagers, there are also hundreds of thousands who are getting the college educations they need to enter the middle class.
In fact, one in five of these "second-generation" Hispanics graduates from college -- a notable achievement given that so many of their immigrant parents, mostly Mexicans and Central Americans, entered the United States without finishing high school.
Their success stories are important, researchers say, because they point the way forward for a generation that will play an outsize role in the country's workforce.
Those who study high achievers say they often have a natural affinity for school and an innate drive to succeed.
Many also have parents who set lofty goals for their children and find ways to compensate for their unfamiliarity with American schools.
But mentoring programs also can play an enormous role in helping Graciela and millions of children like her make it to college -- particularly if those efforts are sustained over time.
We need to think about providing a supportive network for these kids from preschool all the way on through high school.
The federal program that funded Graciela's college tour is a useful example.
Known as GEAR UP, it provides more than $300 million a year to local school systems to run college prep programs that begin when low-income students are in middle school and continue until they finish high school.
Since 1999, the program has served more than 10 million students, with more than 60 percent going on to college, according to the U.S. Department of Education.
Iraqi Oil Ministry reaches deals with 10 foreign oil companies
Despite concerns about violence and political instability, the Iraqi government managed to attract major oil companies to rebuild its ailing infrastructure during two auctions that concluded Saturday.
The 10 deals the Iraqi Oil Ministry reached with foreign oil companies suggest that China, Russia and European oil firms are poised to play a major role in refurbishing Iraq's oil industry, crippled by decades of war and sanctions.
American companies walked away with stakes in just two of the 10 auctioned fields.
Seven American companies had paid to participate in the second auction, which began Friday.
The only one that submitted a bid lost.
Two American companies reached deals for fields auctioned in June.
The meager representation of American oil giants in Iraq's opening oil industry surprised analysts.
Iraq finally opened its doors after six years of war, and instead of U.S. companies, you have Asians and Europeans leading the way, said Ruba Husari, the editor of Iraq Oil Forum, an online news outlet.
It will be a long time before anything else will be on offer in Iraq.
Concerns over security, underscored by massive coordinated bombings Tuesday, and political instability as the U.S. military withdraws, likely kept American oil companies from venturing more forcefully in Iraq, which has the world's third-largest proven crude reserves, analysts said.
U.S. firms were in some cases at a disadvantage because rivals, particularly the Chinese and other government controlled energy firms, have markedly lower labor costs and are more prone to take risks because they don't respond to shareholders.
Exxon-Mobil and Occidental Petroleum Inc. were the only American companies that reached deals with the ministry.
Major U.S. firms such as Chevron and ConocoPhillips, which have cultivated close ties with the Iraqi Oil Ministry and have provided technical advice in recent years, walked away empty-handed.
Russian companies Lukoil and Gazprom were the top stakeholders in two of the contracts awarded this weekend.
State-owned Chinese National Petroleum Corp. bid on more contracts than any other company and walked away with large stakes in contracts for two major fields.
We all know that China is on track to become a major economic as well as technological power, Oil Ministry spokesman Assam Jihad said.
We feel confident that the Chinese company will be on par with its competitors and will deliver on its commitments towards Iraq.
Companies pre-selected to submit bids made offers that were then compared to the per barrel fee the ministry was willing to pay for boosting output above current levels at each field.
Top al-Qaeda planner apparently killed in Pakistan
An apparent U.S. missile strike along Pakistan's border with Afghanistan is believed to have killed a top al-Qaeda operations planner this week, U.S. counterterrorism officials said Friday.
If confirmed, this would be the second deadly attack against a senior terrorist leader this fall.
Saleh al-Somali was one of two Arab men thought to have been killed when a pair of missiles tore into their car Tuesday near the town of Miran Shah in North Waziristan province, according to U.S. sources and Pakistani officials in the region.
Local authorities said the missiles were fired by an unmanned aircraft of the type operated by the CIA inside Pakistan's lawless tribal belt.
They were driving in a white car, heading toward the Afghan border, when the car was hit, said an official with Pakistan's civilian intelligence agency, speaking by phone from Miran Shah.
The official said suspected local militants rushed to the spot and quickly confiscated what remained of the "totally demolished bodies."
Local authorities were unable to verify the victims' identities, but two U.S. counterterrorism officials cited unspecified evidence that Somali was among the dead.
Somali was described as a senior al-Qaeda military planner who ran the terrorist group's operations outside the Afghanistan-Pakistan region.
He was engaged in plotting throughout the world, said one senior official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, citing the sensitive nature of U.S. airstrikes inside Pakistani territory.
Given his central role, this probably included plotting attacks against the United States and Europe.
He took strategic guidance from al-Qaeda's top leadership and translated it into operational blueprints for prospective terrorist attacks.
The second U.S. official said Somali had risen quickly through al-Qaeda's ranks and was well-connected with other extremist groups in the region.
He may not be a household name to some Americans, but that in no way diminishes the threat he posed to us and our allies, the second official said.
If his death is confirmed, Somali would be the second senior al-Qaeda or Taliban leader killed since September, when a similar strike killed Najmuddin Jalolov, the leader of a militant faction in the tribal belt, and three other top operatives.
The tempo of strikes by CIA-run drones has declined since the summer, from an average of about six operations per month to two, according to a tally by the Long War Journal, a Web site managed by a nonprofit group.
The decline may be due to improved tactics by terrorist groups, which have taken steps to limit their vulnerability while also ruthlessly killing suspected informants, the site said.
Top U.N. envoy in Kabul to step down
The United Nations' top envoy in Afghanistan, Kai Eide, said Friday that he would step down from his post in March, ending a tumultuous tenure that was marred by allegations of widespread corruption in Afghanistan's U.N.-backed presidential election.
Eide's departure comes as the Obama administration has decided to send an additional 30,000 U.S. troops to Afghanistan.
The U.N. envoy said that he supports the surge but expressed concern that the U.S. timetable for a military drawdown beginning in 18 months would prompt other NATO governments to withdraw their forces.
We need to accelerate the buildup of the Afghan security forces and send the right signal to the Afghans that they can trust the international community, Eide said in a telephone interview from Kabul.
The commitment has to be long-term.
The Norwegian diplomat also pressed the United States and other military powers to increase the number of international civil servants aiding Afghanistan's political transition.
The surge on the military side has to be copied on the civilian side, he said.
Eide said he was not resigning but simply fulfilling a commitment he made to his family in March 2008 to spend only two years in Kabul.
He said he wanted to serve notice to U.N.
Secretary General Ban Ki-moon now so that he would have time to find a replacement.
What I've said is that you better start looking for a successor, Eide said.
When I came here, there was a two-month vacuum between a departure of my predecessor and my arrival.
Ban has begun searching for a replacement, according to U.N. officials.
Eide's standing in Afghanistan was tested after his former deputy, Peter W. Galbraith, accused him in September of favoring President Hamid Karzai in the country's presidential vote and of covering up evidence of massive electoral fraud.
Eide denied the allegations, but he said the accusations by Galbraith -- who was fired -- "certainly damaged the mission, because there was already a great degree of skepticism with regard to international interference" in the election.
Eide said he proposed the appointment of a senior civilian representative to coordinate relief efforts by the U.S.-led forces in Afghanistan.
He also urged the U.N. leadership to allow his successor to hire more staff from the United States and other Western countries that donate to the Afghan mission, saying it would increase their confidence that their money is being properly spent.
Eide expressed frustration with the limitations on his powers in Afghanistan, saying that cumbersome U.N. hiring regulations undercut his ability to bring in talent.
The U.N. rules are such that I have only been able to recruit a single person since May, he said.
That is catastrophic and can't continue.
Gates: Iran to face additional sanctions
Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said Friday that world powers will soon impose "significant additional sanctions" on Iran over its failure to engage in talks on its nuclear ambitions.
Gates, speaking to a group of about 300 U.S. troops in northern Iraq during a week-long tour of war zones in Afghanistan and Iraq, played down the prospect of military action against the Islamic republic.
One of the things that weighs on me is that if we have learned anything from Iraq over the past six years, [it] is the inherent unpredictability of war.
The Obama administration is considering a package of sanctions that would target Iran's military and political elite, but Gates signaled that some of the sanctions could also affect ordinary Iranians.
He said that "a package of incentives and disincentives" would be needed "to persuade the Iranian government that they would actually be less secure with nuclear weapons" because "their people will suffer enormously" from sanctions.
In a statement Friday by White House spokesman Robert Gibbs, the administration joined European leaders in warning that Iran will face "credible" consequences if it does not bring its nuclear program into full compliance with the U.N. Security Council and its nuclear watchdog, the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Iran insists that it wants to develop nuclear expertise only for peaceful purposes.
In talks in Geneva on Oct. 1, it indicated that it would return to talks on restraining its nuclear program and agree to give up a substantial portion of its stockpile of enriched uranium in exchange for desperately needed fuel for a medical research reactor.
The administration has pushed for such an agreement as a way to build confidence between the two sides and to buy time for negotiations.
But since then, Iran appears to have walked away from the tentative deals -- in part, experts say, because the Iranian leadership is divided over whether to engage with the United States.
Frankly, Iran's stiffing the international community on some of the proposals that they actually agreed to at the beginning of October, I think, has brought the international community, including the Russians and the Chinese, together in a way that they have not been in terms of significant additional sanctions on the Iranians, Gates said.
President Obama has set a Dec. 31 deadline for Iran to respond to the proposals before he turns to reviewing other options, including pursuing what Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton once called "crippling sanctions."
In a statement issued in New York, Iran's mission to the United Nations denounced what it called "baseless and unfounded allegations" Thursday by some Security Council members about Iran's nuclear activities and said it is willing to continue talks with the United States and five other world powers "in order to achieve an appropriate, long-term solution."
Gates, who was to return to Washington late Friday, met in the morning with Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki before flying to Iraq's oil-rich Kurdish region for meetings with troops in Kirkuk and Kurdish officials in Irbil.
Tensions remain high between the Kurds and Iraq's Arab majority, particularly over boundaries, property rights and revenue-sharing.
Gates urged both sides to reduce the potential for conflict to prevent any delays in U.S. plans to cut the number of American troops from 115,000 to 50,000 by the end of August.
Gates also sought to allay Kurdish anxiety about the pending drawdown. U.S. officials quoted Gates as telling Massoud Barzani, president of the Kurdistan Regional Government: "We will preserve your security, prosperity and autonomy within a unified Iraq.
We will not abandon you."
In aging China, a change of course
Wang Weijia and her husband grew up surrounded by propaganda posters lecturing them that "Mother Earth is too tired to sustain more children" and "One more baby means one more tomb."
They learned the lesson so well that when Shanghai government officials, alarmed by their city's low birthrate and aging population, abruptly changed course this summer and began encouraging young couples to have more than one child, their reaction was instant and firm: No way.
We have already given all our time and energy for just one child.
We have none left for a second, said Wang, 31, a human resources administrator with an 8-month-old son.
More than 30 years after China's one-child policy was introduced, creating two generations of notoriously chubby, spoiled only children affectionately nicknamed "little emperors," a population crisis is looming in the country.
The average birthrate has plummeted to 1.8 children per couple as compared with six when the policy went into effect, according to the U.N.
Population Division, while the number of residents 60 and older is predicted to explode from 16.7 percent of the population in 2020 to 31.1 percent by 2050. That is far above the global average of about 20 percent.
The imbalance is worse in wealthy coastal cities with highly educated populations, such as Shanghai.
Last year, people 60 and older accounted for almost 22 percent of Shanghai's registered residents, while the birthrate was less than one child per couple.
Xie Lingli, director of the Shanghai Municipal Population and Family Planning Commission, has said that fertile couples need to have babies to "help reduce the proportion of the aging population and alleviate a workforce shortage in the future."
Shanghai is about to be "as old -- not as rich, though -- as developed countries such as Japan and Sweden," she said.
A gradual easing
Written into the country's constitution in 1978, China's one-child policy is arguably the most controversial mandate introduced by the ruling Communist Party to date.
Couples who violate the policy face enormous fines -- up to three times their annual salary in some areas -- and discrimination at work.
Chinese officials have credited the policy with helping the country avoid critical strain on its natural resources, while human rights advocates have denounced abuses in the enforcement of the policy.
In rural areas, some officials have forced women pregnant with a second child to undergo abortions.
In addition, many couples have had sex-selective abortions, leading to an unnaturally high male-to-female ratio.
In recent years, population officials have gradually softened their stance on the one-child policy.
In 2004, they allowed for more exceptions to the rule -- including urban residents, members of ethnic minorities and cases in which both husband and wife are only children -- and in 2007, they toned down many of their hard-line slogans.
Qiao Xiaochun, a professor at the Institute of Population Research at Peking University, said central government officials have recently been debating even more radical changes, such as allowing couples to have two children if one partner is an only child.
In July, Shanghai became the first Chinese city to launch an aggressive campaign to encourage more births.
Almost overnight, posters directing families to have only one child were replaced by copies of regulations detailing who would be eligible to have a second child and how to apply for a permit.
The city government dispatched family planning officials and volunteers to meet with couples in their homes and slip leaflets under doors.
It has also pledged to provide emotional and financial counseling to those electing to have more than one child.
The response has been underwhelming, family planning officials say.
Disappointing response
Although officials in one rural town on the outskirts of Shanghai say they saw an uptick in applications from couples wanting a second child after the campaign was launched, the more urban districts report no change.
Huinan township, with a population of 115,000, for instance, is still receiving just four to five applications a month.
Disappointed Shanghai officials say that, despite the campaign, the number of births in the city in 2010 is still expected to be only about 165,000 -- slightly higher than in 2009 but lower than in 2008.
Feng Juying, head of the family planning committee in Shanghai's Caolu township, said financial considerations are probably the main reason many people don't want more children.
They want to give the best to their first, she said.
Yang Jiawei, 27, and his wife, Liu Juanjuan, 26, said they would love to have two children and are legally allowed to do so.
But like many Chinese, they have only the scant medical and life insurance provided by the government.
Without a social safety net, they say, the choice would be irresponsible.
People in the West wrongly see the one-child policy as a rights issue, said Yang, a construction engineer whose wife is seven months pregnant with the couple's first child.
Yes, we are being robbed of the chance to have more than one child.
But the problem is not just some policy.
It is money.
Other couples cite psychological reasons for hesitating.
Wang, the human resources administrator, said she wants an only child because she was one herself: "We were at the center of our families and used to everyone taking care of us.
We are not used to taking care of and don't really want to take care of others."
Chen Zijian, a 42-year-old who owns a translation company, put it more bluntly.
For the dual-career, middle-class parents who are bringing the birthrate down, he said, it's about being successful enough to be selfish.
Today's 20- and 30-somethings grew up seeing their parents struggle during the early days of China's experiment with capitalism and don't want that kind of life for themselves, he said.
Even one child makes huge demands on parents' time, he said.
A mother has to give up at least two years of her social life.
Most of his friends are willing to deal with this once, Chen said, but not twice.
Ours is the first generation with higher living standards, he said.
We do not want to make too many sacrifices.
U.N. group drafts plan to reduce emissions
The U.N.-sponsored climate conference -- characterized so far by unruly posturing and mutual recriminations -- gained renewed focus Friday with the release of a document outlining ambitious greenhouse-gas reductions over the next 40 years, with industrialized nations shouldering most of the burden in the near term.
The text, which could provide the basis for a final political deal to regulate greenhouse gases, highlighted the remaining obstacles as much as it illuminated a path forward.
But it was seen as an important advance in a negotiation that is running out of time, with more than 100 world leaders arriving in Copenhagen next week.
Forged by a U.N. ad-hoc working group, the text is silent on how much money rich countries would give poor ones to cope with global warming over the short and long term.
And it provides a range of options for the key questions, including how developed and major emerging economies would cut their carbon output, and what would be the upper limit of global temperature rise that policymakers would be willing to tolerate.
It gives a lot of flexibility to the process, said John Coequyt, senior Washington representative for the Sierra Club.
Michael Zammit Cutajar, who drafted the six-page document, boiled down a 180-page negotiation text to focus on what the U.N.'s top climate official, Yvo de Boer, described as "the big picture."
It shows the outlines for a possible deal, in which industrial nations would collectively cut their emissions by 2020 by 25 to 45 percent compared with 1990 levels, while major developing countries would reduce theirs during the same period by 15 to 30 percent.
Together, the countries would cut emissions between 50 and 95 percent by 2050.
The European Union gave the talks a boost as well on Friday by pledging to provide $3.6 billion a year over the next three years to help poorer countries adapt to the impact of climate change -- from coping with flood and drought to avoiding deforestation.
Still, Friday featured the same sort of verbal fireworks that have dominated the talks for the past week.
U.S. special climate envoy Todd Stern rejected language requiring binding cuts of greenhouse-gas emissions for industrialized countries compared with voluntary ones by major emerging economies if they were not funded by the developed world.
The move signaled that the Obama administration is taking a harder line with China than Bush administration officials did just two years ago.
The United States is not going to do a deal without the major developing countries stepping up and taking action, said Stern, who also complained that the text did not do enough to make sure the cuts could be verified by outside observers.
Stern made his comments an hour after Chinese vice foreign minister He Yafei said America's top climate negotiator was either lacking "common sense" or being "extremely irresponsible" for saying earlier in the week that the United States would not help China financially to cope with global warming.
With the future economic trajectory of the world's major powers at stake, fault lines have erupted both within the developing world and between the industrial world and emerging economies.
The current battle is as much about saving individual economies as saving the planet, with China and the United States feuding over their respective obligations while poorer nations insist that the world's two dozen most influential countries are ignoring the scientific imperative to take bolder action.
Ricardo Ulate, a Costa Rican delegate, said it's not surprising that the major powers are fighting over who should bear the costs for curbing greenhouse gases, even as vulnerable countries have become more aggressive in seeking to hold the big emitters accountable for their actions.
This is clearly a game where a new economic hegemony is being developed, said Ulate, who also serves as the regional Mexico and Central America climate change adviser for Conservation International.
Some of the countries most vulnerable to the impact of climate change indicated they would continue to push for a legally binding treaty in Copenhagen, although most of the major participants say the talks will produce a political deal at best.
The Alliance of Small Island States, which has 43 members, produced a 24-page draft treaty proposal early Friday morning.
Artur Runge-Metzger, who heads international climate negotiations on behalf of the European Commission, said the push by small island nations has "put political pressure on the entire political process," in part because they are now unified and demanding action from emerging economies such as China and India.
The talks took on new urgency as delegates focused on the fact that they must resolve most of the outstanding issues before the heads of government arrive to strike a deal.
High-level officials such as Indian environment minister Jairam Ramesh and the Chinese vice minister stepped off planes and raced through the Bella Center's halls to closed-door meetings and news conferences so they could stake out claims that will be arbitrated over the next week.
The sheer sprawl of the gathering -- where 13,000 people move in and out of the convention center each day, guitar-playing activists put on nightly shows mocking the countries they think are selling out, and draft proposals are passed hand-to-hand on paper rather than via e-mail -- poses a challenge.
The intensity is only building: nearly all of the key ministers are now here, and as early as Wednesday 60 heads of government will be in Copenhagen.
We're getting into the big leagues, said Carlos Manuel Rodriguez, vice president for global policy at Conservation International.
The heavyweights are coming.
At 5.13 on Monday morning a whistle will pierce the darkness to signal a train departure that marks a revolution for travel in Britain.
The first high-speed commuter train in the country will reach 140mph as it streaks from Ashford, Kent, to London St Pancras, covering the 58 miles in 38 minutes.
Lord Adonis, the Transport Secretary, will then be joined by Dame Kelly Holmes aboard the first Javelin commuter service out of London.
He hopes that the new service will eventually plug Britain into an international network of fast, reliable trains and connect the great conurbations of the Midlands, the North and Scotland to London.
Neglected backwaters would become thriving commuter towns, business travel times would be slashed and the shift from aircraft and cars to the railway would reduce national carbon emissions as well as easing congestion on the roads.
In theory, the three main political parties buy into this vision.
High Speed Two (HS2), a company created in January to provide the Government with a feasibility study, will hand its report to Lord Adonis on December 30, The Times has learnt.
It will provide him with a detailed route map of the next planned stage of the high-speed network.
The new line linking London to the West Midlands will be drawn to within five metres in urban areas and sites where the environmental impact may be contentious.
In open country, the plan will be drafted to within 25 metres of a final route.
HS2 is also expected to set out three options for a wider high-speed network running north.
Lord Adonis will respond in the spring.
The favoured option being put forward is a Y-shaped configuration in which a single high-speed line would run up to the West Midlands.
The line would split at or near Birmingham, with one branch running west of the Pennines to Manchester and Scotland and another running northeast to Sheffield, Leeds and Newcastle upon Tyne.
A single line would run into Scotland.
"It looks like it is going to be the best-performing option," a railway insider said.
Once complete, journey times between London and Edinburgh would be cut to 2 hours 40 minutes.
The first leg, which would not open before 2025, would allow passengers to travel between London and Birmingham in 49 minutes, compared with just over an hour at present.
The proposals would allow trains to travel at 250mph, making the British network the fastest in Europe.
The initial track is being designed to take trains 400m in length capable of carrying 1,100 people.
As many as 18 could operate each hour on a London-Birmingham line.
That means that a London terminal capable of handling 20,000 passengers an hour would be needed.
Given space constraints in the capital, it is expected that an existing station would be expanded to accommodate the high-speed network.
Rail industry experts say that only St Pancras International or Euston offer that potential.
Lord Adonis will announce whether or not he thinks the scheme should proceed, but lengthy public consultation and planning procedures mean that a final decision would not be made until after a general election.
Even if he does put the wheels in motion, the network would have to be built in sections.
Trains would at first be forced to run off high-speed lines on to the existing rails north of Birmingham, keeping journey times between London and Scotland above three hours.
That is seen as the crucial tipping point needed to ensure a switch from planes to trains, a benchmark for the rail revolution.
Alan Duncan, the frontbench Tory MP, charged the taxpayer thousands of pounds a year towards the cost of an orangery he built at his constituency home.
He was allowed to charge the extra interest, totalling hundreds of pounds a month, to the taxpayer.
Mr Duncan, one of the richest Members of Parliament, owns a two-storey house in a village in his Rutland and Melton constituency.
Houses near by have sold for almost a million pounds.
The ground floor comprises a kitchen, living room and dining room, but the fees office agreed that Mr Duncan needed more space.
Last year he added a conservatory to the house, described in plans as an "orangery".
Neighbours described it as a "glasshouse for entertaining".
The committee cleared him last month of breaching the rules after an investigation into his expenses.
The RBS standard variable mortgage rate went down from 7.94 per cent in December 2007 to 4 per cent in March this year, where it remains.
Mr Duncan lost his job as Shadow Leader of the House in September after an undercover reporter filmed him saying that MPs had to survive "on rations" after the expenses scandal.
He said: "I spend my money on my garden and claim a tiny fraction based on what is proper.
The MP, a millionaire from his former career as an oil trader, was first challenged over his expenses in May when it emerged that he had claimed thousands of pounds for his garden, before agreeing with the fees office that this "could be considered excessive".
Asked about the increased mortgage last night, Mr Duncan said: "It was for capital improvements approved both by the fees office and subsequently by Legg."
He added: "There is no issue of ducking and weaving or pushing the rules or anything.
It is absolutely straight down the line, within the rules, authorised and everything.
Beach huts in Brighton have found a new lease of life for the winter months as an interactive Advent calendar.
Beyond, an alternative church group that encourages spiritual exploration through creativity, invited 24 owners to decorate their huts for each day in December, using Christmas carols as their theme.
The event started on December 1, with visitors allowed to view the latest hut from 5.30pm to 6.30pm each day, with mince pies and mulled wine laid on for free.
Martin Poole, 50, a TV marketing assistant from Hove, is a non-stipendiary clergyman within the Chichester diocese and the leader of Beyond.
He said: "We want to make religion more relevant to people in a post-Christendom society.
"The idea of the beach hut Advent calendar began just as a conversation with some friends over dinner.
Brighton is such a fantastically creative and vibrant place and we are trying to try and represent that through spirituality."
Large climate change gatherings in Copenhagen and around the world
Tens of thousands of people demonstrated on Saturday to support an ambitious and restrictive agreement in the fight against global warming around the world and in Copenhagen, where police made several hundred arrests.
At least thirty thousand people, according to police, and a hundred thousand, according to the organisers, marched in the cold in the Danish capital outside the United Nations climate conference, which is tasked with reaching an agreement by Friday that will enter into effect on the 1st of January, 2013.
For Connie Hedegaard, the Danish climate conference president, the increasing number of climate rallies around the world, illustrated by these protests, has contributed to making the 'political cost' of a failure in Copenhagen very high.
The incidents in the Danish capital occurred shortly after the departure of the main procession, when a group of 300 protesters, clothed entirely in black, broke shop windows with paving and hammers, observed a reporter from the AFP.
Riot police provided an immediate and unhesitant response.
Police announced a total of 600 to 700 hundred arrests, with most, they report, being members of the 'Black Blocks'; small ultra-violent groups that had notably made an appearance at the NATO summit in Strasbourg, in the East of France, in April.
The Climate Justice Action (CJA) coalition, one of the protest organisers, reported conditions whereby hundreds of protesters were arrested "without discrimination," highlighting that a hundred of them "were still detained in the street on Saturday night" handcuffed and held in a sitting position despite the extreme cold".
Having left the Parliament, the procession headed in an orderly fashion towards the Bella Center, where negotiations were to take place.
The protesters stopped about 500 metres short of the building without trying to enter.
A stage had been raised to receive the expected speakers before a candlelit vigil, in which the former South African Archbishop from Cape Town, Desmond Tutu would be taking part.
The majority of protesters had arrived by coach and train from the major European cities, but many Asian protesters, including some Chinese and Korean, were also present, as well as those from Africa.
Around 3000 people, mainly clad in sky blue raincoats, had formed an initial rally in Copenhagen during the morning, called by Friends of the Earth, who were planning "blue waves" for "climate justice".
We are marching on the streets today to demand reparations of the ecological debt for the South, explained Lidy Nacpil, a Filipino activist in the Jubilee South Coalition in Copenhagen.
We cannot continue to tell ourselves that there is time left, assesses the singer from Benin, Angelique Kidjo.
There are rivers drying out in Africa; water courses, where it is possible to walk and never was before.
For the first time in the history of Climate Diplomacy, born in 1992 with the adoption of the UN Convention, the anti-globalisation movement has brought itself closer to environmental organisations.
The Asia-Pacific region, which is home to numerous islands, which are particularly vulnerable to the effects of warming, had kicked off the protests.
According to organisers, some 50 000 people took to the streets in Australia.
In Manila, several hundred people, mostly students, paraded in red, brandishing banners about the benefits of solar energy.
In Hong Kong, Djakarta, and in Canada, rallies of several hundred demonstrators were also formed to demand more forceful action against climate change.
In France, the protests organised by the "350" network brought together several hundred people, notably in Paris, Marseilles (in the South), Lille (in the North), Bordeaux (in the West), and Lyon (in the East).
In Geneva, dozens of people gathered.
Separatist Abkhazia has elected its president; Georgia calls it a "farce"
Abkhazia elected its president on Saturday, a little over a year after Moscow's recognition of the pro-Russian region of Georgia, while Tbilisi calls it a "farce".
Some 131 000 people were called on to take part in this first vote following the Georgia-Russia war in August 2008 for the control of South Ossetia, another secessionist Georgian territory recognised by Russia.
The polling stations closed at 17:00 GMT.
Attendance was at 58% a few hours before closure, according to Abkhazian electoral Commission officials.
The first provisional results were to be announced during the night between Saturday and Sunday.
The five candidates in the running, among whom the existing president, Sergei Bagapsh, all categorically reject the idea of a reunification with Georgia, which has condemned the holding of the vote.
These elections are a farce.
For his part, the Georgian president, Mikheil Saakashvili, "regrets that Abkhazia has fallen under total Russian occupation," declared his spokeswoman, Manana Manjgaladze.
Other than Russia, only Nicaragua and Venezuela have recognised the independence of the territory's 216 000 inhabitants, while the rest of the world considers it a part of Georgia illegally occupied by Russian troops.
After separating itself from Georgia in the 1992-1993 conflict, which saw the loss of several thousand lives, Abkhazia is trying to show, by means of this election, that it is ready to join the international community.
This process is a stage in our new life, our new era as an independent state, declared Svetlana Kvarchia, a 54-year-old historian, who confirms having voted for Mister Bagapsh.
She was among the voters who came to the polling station in an attractive white school building with several palm trees at the front in the capital, Soukhoumi.
The question of the Russian domination is at the heart of the presidential debate, in this region gifted with a lush landscape on the Black Sea.
Vast billboards showing Mister Bagapsh beside the Russian President and Prime Minister, Dmitry Medvedev and Vladimir Putin, are dotted around this small territory of 216 000 inhabitants.
In Gali, in the West of the country, the Chief of District, Beslan Archba, reserved a very warm welcome for the Russian officials who came to oversee the voting.
We, the Abkhazian people, are thankful, he said during a small ceremony, alluding to the support from Moscow, and particularly to the decision to recognise the independence of Abkhazia.
I hope that your country will soon be recognised by the United Nations, replied Alexei Ostrovsky, a member of the Russian Parliament, while raising his glass of vodka.
For their part, the opposition represented in the vote by the former vice-president Raoul Khadjimba and two businessmen, Zaous Ardzinba and Beslan Boutba, criticises the agreements made with Moscow in the previous year, such as the one giving Russia control of the Abkhazian rail network for the next 10 years.
The fifth candidate, Vitali Bganba, asserts not being in support of the current Government or the opposition.
50% plus one vote is the majority required to win the vote.
If no candidate attains this threshold, a second vote must be organised within two weeks.
Climate: demonstrations around the world, incidents in Copenhagen.
Tens of thousands of people the world over marched on Saturday to demand an ambitious and restrictive agreement at the Climate Conference in Copenhagen, where police were on alert and arrested almost 700 people on the fringes of an imposing rally.
Thirty thousand people, according to police, a hundred thousand, according to organisers, paraded in the cold afternoon in the Danish capital, which is receiving delegates from 193 countries until the 18th of December, who will be seeking to conclude an agreement to come into effect by the 1st of January, 2013.
Having left the Parliament, the procession headed in a generally orderly fashion for the Bella Center, where negotiations were to take place.
The demonstrators stopped about 500 metres short of the building without trying to enter.
A stage had been erected to accommodate the speakers, before a candlelit vigil, with the participation of former South African Cape Town archbishop, Desmond Tutu.
A few moments after the departure of the procession, a group of several hundred demonstrators, clad entirely in black and holding bricks and hammers, broke shop windows, remarked an AFP reporter.
Riot police immediately surrounded them and intervened in no uncertain terms, throwing several of them to the ground.
Police announced the arrests of 600 to 700 hundred people, adding that they were mainly members of the 'Black Blocks'; small ultra-violent groups that had notably made an appearance at the NATO summit in Strasbourg, in the East of France, in April.
Towards the end of the afternoon a policeman was injured on the jaw by a piece of paving and four cars were set alight near a squat during a series of incidents, which led to the arrests of some twenty people, according to police.
We have our eye on the small extremist groups, police spokesman Henrik Jakobsen warned, as the force's helicopters circled in the sky above.
The majority of demonstrators were of European origin, arriving in coaches and trains from the main German cities, from London, from Amsterdam, and also from Milan.
Large numbers of Asians, including a few Chinese and Koreans, were also present, as were some Africans.
Around 3000 people, mainly clad in sky blue raincoats, had formed an initial rally in Copenhagen during the morning called by Friends of the Earth, who were planning "blue waves" for "climate justice".
We are taking to the streets today to demand the ecological debt be repaid to the South, explained Lily Nacpil, a Filipino activist from the Jubilee Coalition Group in Copenhagen.
We cannot continue to tell ourselves that there is time left, assesses the singer from Benin, Angelique Kidjo.
There are rivers drying out in Africa; water courses, where it is possible to walk and never was before.
For the first time in the history of Climate Diplomacy, born in 1992 with the adoption of the UN Convention, the anti-globalisation movement has brought itself closer to environmental organisations.
Oxfam enlisted the help of several well-known personalities, including Danish model Helena Christensen, and the former UN Commissioner for refugees, Mary Robinson, who were to address the crowd.
The Asia-Pacific region, which is home to numerous islands, which are particularly vulnerable to the effects of warming, had kicked off the protests.
According to organisers, some 50 000 people took to the streets in Australia.
In Manila, several hundred people, mostly students, paraded in red in front of the capital's City Hall, brandishing banners about the benefits of solar energy.
In Hong Kong and Djakarta, rallies of several hundred demonstrators were also formed to demand action against climate change.
In France, the protests organised by the "350" network brought together several hundred people, notably in Paris, Marseilles (in the South), Lille (in the North), Bordeaux (in the West), and Lyon (in the East).
In Geneva, dozens of people gathered.
History-Geography are strengthened by the secondary schools reform, according to Chatel
French Education Minister, Luc Chatel, declared in an interview to be published in the French Paper On Sunday (JDD) that History and Geography were "reinforced" by the secondary schools reform, despite them no longer being obligatory subjects for the French technical Sixth Form.
From now on, first year pupils will have four hours per week, and the same programme for a common shared culture, states Mr. Chatel.
According to the minister, "We need to get out of this hypocrisy" because, he says, "the 'S' course of study is no longer the science course", but "more generally, it is a magnet for the stronger pupils".
The 'ES' and 'L' courses cannot remain inferior choices behind the 'S' course, he continues, highlighting that "I have not heard many historians or academics expressing indignance at the absence of History-Geography in the technical Sixth Forms either."
On the other hand, the minister added that there was "no question" of eliminating the 'S' course philosophy.
Luc Chatel also defended the teachers' education reforms, just as 16 organisations (students and associations) called for a day of protest on Tuesday to demonstrate against the project, which, in their opinion, sacrifices the educational training of future teachers.
For 2nd year Master's (M2), an entry exam focusing on the candidate's discipline will be required at the start of the year, and an acceptance exam testing their capacity to teach will be held at the end of the year, the minister explained.
Furthermore, they will cover in-class placements throughout the M2 year, and will then be in front of pupils for a year as student teachers.
If you add up all the placement work proposed before the exam you already end up with more presence in front of students, which equates to over 300 hours, he continued.
Finally, the minister indicates that he will be putting forward "the individual's right to education; something that does not exist in national Education".
He also reaffirms the plan to abolish the school map "by 2012".
Jean Jouzel, Nobel Peace Prize winner, inaugurated the first of the conferences entitled "Ernest", a day composed of a series of 15-minute lectures from experts, filmed and open to the public, noted an AFP reporter.
We wanted to do something to catch people's attention and make them want to find out more, explained one of the day's organisers, 22-year-old Edouard Hannezo, outside the conference; this having been named after the name given to the fish in the school's pond.
We choose around twenty lecturers among the experts in their field and the more charismatic ones are selected, he added.
On the subject of global warming, "we could go on for hours, but we can also cover the key objectives in a few minutes", Jean Jouzel told the AFP, who made his presentation without notes, but with graphical aids, to an audience of around fifty.
This is part of our scientist's role, he emphasised, hoping that listeners will remember that "the Copenhagen conference is based on an extremely solid scientific case".
The video footage from the conferences will be available online on the school's website starting the 15th of December.
The next "Ernest" day is planned for February, followed by others on a bimonthly basis.
Late payments: anger from prison guards, action planned
Prison guard unions called for a "general rally" on Friday to demand payment of their bonuses and overtime before the end of the year holidays, having seen it pushed into January for budgetary reasons.
The penitentiary administration's Management and the Justice Ministry explain that overtime has increased considerably in 2009 and was not fully covered in the budget, but assures that the outstanding balances will be settled in January.
I am not ignoring the efforts made by the staff for the functioning and modernisation of our prison system, writes the Minister of Justice in this communication.
I have asked the penitentiary administration Management to put in place, without delay, a set of measures to ensure that this situation, caused by a poor evaluation of the number of additional work hours, does not repeat itself in the future, adds Mrs. Alliot-Marie.
The December pay packet will therefore be slim, except for management staff, who benefit from the so-called target and position-related bonuses, critics the UFAP/UNSA, saying "budgetary constraints are a convenient excuse".
It is an absolute scandal, complains the inter-regional union from Marseilles, announcing its decision to boycott "all meetings and convocations" until further notice.
According to the unions, the situation is not the same in all regions, with some being worse off than others.
For Christmas, Obama says he gives "nicer stuff" than he receives
The American President, Barack Obama, who is preparing for his first family Christmas at the White House, intimates to TV icon Oprah Winfrey that he has one simple rule when it comes to presents: "I give nicer stuff than I get".
In a special programme to be broadcast on the ABC channel on Sunday evening, the president and his wife, Michelle, offer an insight into the way they plan to celebrate the end of year festivities in their prestigious new home.
Even Bo, the family's little four-legged friend, will be joining in.
Santa Claus loves Bo too, maintains Michelle Obama, adding that the dog would "naturally" have a present, according to the programme's advertising trailer.
And Michelle Obama feigned indignance, countering her husband's claims about the quality of the gifts he receives: "No way; I gave you good gifts last year", she teased the President.
Absolutely, he had to concede before jokingly retorting: "Who gave you this?", pointing at the First Lady's pearl necklace.
During this hour-long light-hearted programme with the famous presenter, who was a fervent Barack Obama supporter during the presidential campaign, the president and his wife also recalled their favourite childhood presents.
Barack Obama remembered a ten-speed bicycle, but also a basketball that his Kenyan father, whom he had rarely seen, had given him for Christmas.
I remember a time when I met my father, who had come to visit us for Christmas, and he gave me a basketball, said the president.
It was only much later in my life that I realised that he had given me the ball.
The First Lady, for her part, recalled her dollhouse.
I had no idea how to organise a house, so I had lined up all the furniture against the wall, rather than arranging them around the fireplace, but I adored that little dollhouse, said Michelle Obama.
Johnny Hallyday re-operated on, RTL claims he is in artificial coma
Johnny Hallyday was re-operated on in Los Angeles due to significant "lesions" after an operation in France, but the situation is "under control" according to his entourage, while RTL claims that the singer has been placed in an artificial coma to avoid pain and complications.
The singer's press office, however, wanted to be reassuring, stating that the situation was "under control", while announcing that a new medical bulletin would be communicated within 48 hours.
According to RTL, partner for the singer's first tour, however, Johnny Hallyday may have been put into an artificial coma to avoid "pain and complications".
It will only be in 48 hours that we will have a little more certainty about the state of the patient, once he has at least one eye open, added RTL.
When questioned by the AFP, the press office neither confirmed, nor commented on the information.
RTL also claims that "according to certain sources", no drain was fitted after the first operation in Paris.
The rocker had been operated on for a slipped disc at the international clinic at Parc Monceau.
He was not available to comment on RTL's information on Thursday evening.
The singer, Eddy Mitchell, a close friend of Johnny Hallyday, said on RTL on Thursday that his friend was going through "a bad patch", but assured everyone that he had "no worries" about the rocker, who is a "fighter".
He had called me just before leaving for Los Angeles, and I told him that it was crazy, because taking a 12-hour flight after that kind of operation is not realistic, said Eddy Mitchell.
Wednesday evening, the singer's producer, Jean-Claude Camus, had wanted to be reassuring, stating that Johnny Hallyday "was reacting satisfactorily to the antibiotics" and that the infection was being "contained".
Mr. Camus had also said to have spoken with Laeticia, the singer's wife, and not to have noticed any signs of worry.
But health problems for the singer have only multiplied since he was hospitalised for nine days in July after a fall on his yacht.
Two months later, to the surprise of all, Johnny Hallyday had revealed having had a "minor colonic cancer" operation, then a slight infection.
At the end of September, the singer resumed as planned his long "Tour 66", billed as his final goodbye tour.
However, since then, every health problem is heavily commented on. Fans and reporters have noticed the singer's trouble in moving around on stage.
In mid-November, his entourage even had to deny further hospitalisation.
Euro-2009/short course: Bousquet's first in his lucky distance
The first day of this competition, where full-length swimsuits are permitted for the last time, has seen only three world records beaten, whereas a wave of them was expected.
One record was improved on by the Hungarian, Evelyn Verraszto, 200m medly, and the two others by Russia in the 4x50m medly relay.
A regret for Bousquet, who had his sight set on the 50m freestyle world record, for which he holds the long course title (20.94).
In one of the two high-profile swimming events, the 50m freestyle, it was the 28-year-old Frenchman who made his mark with a time of 20.53 in a final, where ten swimmers started instead of the usual eight - a first at the international level.
Bousquet bested the Croat, Duje Draganja (20.70) and the Russian, Sergey Fesikov (20.84), but he did not manage to reduce the world record time (20.30) as he had envisaged.
One can always dream of better, and I had actually stated that, if the world record was in my reach, I would certainly attempt it.
Like Bousquet, the vast majority of swimmers were in polyurethane swimsuits, which will not be permitted starting the 1st of January.
Having unleashed 238 world records since February 2008, these swimsuits will end their epic story in Istanbul, which had also seen the first ones in 1999, during the same competition.
The use of these swimsuits did not assist the German, Rome's long course two-time world champion this summer, Paul Biedermann, on this occasion, where world records were at stake.
The young swimmer did not succeed in reducing the record he currently holds in the 400m freestyle (3:32.77), but did, nevertheless, make an impression by achieving his second personal best time (3:34.55), ahead of the Russian, Nikita Lobintsev (3:35.75) and the Dane, Mads Glaesner (3:36.82).
I did not give it my all in this race.
I knew that I could not achieve a world record, but I managed to defend my title and have accomplished my mission.
Lobintsev will be a strong rival in the future, explained Biedermann.
USA: a sarcophagus panel belonging to Zola fetches 1.5 million USD
A Roman sarcophagus panel, which had notably belonged to the French writer, Emile Zola, fetched 1.5 million dollars on Thursday, a significantly higher figure than was estimated, announced art auction house Sotheby's.
This front panel, measuring two metres in length and 63cm in height, dating back to the 3rd century AD, was valued at 150,000 to 250,000 dollars.
The marble "depicting four Dionysian scenes in a sophisticated architectural decor, surrounded by satyrs and bacchantes, is a rare piece; there are only five of them in the world", Florent Heintz, vice-president of art auctions for Roman and Egyptian antiquities, had explained to the AFP on Tuesday.
It was sold among around a hundred other lots.
The auction is still going on, but this lot is certainly the one, which has got buyers bidding most so far, commented Sotheby's spokesman to the AFP, Dan Abernethy.
The discovery of Emile Zola's acquisition of this marble piece dates back some time.
That left a grey area of about fifty years.
Zelaya's departure attempt from Honduras to Mexico aborted
Mexico judged on Thursday that conditions were no longer suitable for the transfer into its territory of the deposed Honduran president, Manuel Zelaya, who had been refused safe passage by the coup-installed Government.
At the moment, after a telephone conversation in the night with president Zelaya, everything seems to indicate that the potential options for carrying out this transfer are not suitable, declared the Mexican Secretary of Foreign Affairs, Patricia Espinosa.
Having arrived on Wednesday in El Salvador to bring back Mr. Zelaya, the Mexican Government plane returned to its original location, according to a source from the General Directorate of Migrations.
The Coup Government had wanted to force Mr. Zelaya to "resign" and had requested a foreign asylum to allow him safe passage to.
But the president refused, because he wanted to travel to Mexico as the incumbent Head of State and an invited guest.
The Coup Government "has again met with failure by wanting me to give up my duties (...); they wanted me to resign", Mr. Zelaya told radio Globo on Thursday, through which he often makes himself heard, since the beginning of the political crisis, which has so far lasted five months in this country of Central America.
I could stay here ten years, I have my guitar here, added the deposed president while playing a few chords, having taken refuge at the Brazilian Embassy in Tegucigalpa for the last two and a half months.
The Mexican Embassy presented us with a request for safe passage, but, unfortunately, we could not accept it because it did not contain an asylum request, the Coup Government Interior Minister, Oscar Raul Matute, had declared on Wednesday on Honduran HRN radio.
I am not requesting asylum from any country, Manuel Zelaya had answered in an interview on the Telesur channel, based in Caracas.
Any departure from Honduras would have to be as the president of the Honduran people, he had emphasised.
The rumours of Mr. Zelaya's departure had, on Wednesday, mobilised the partisans of the deposed president, who gathered around the Brazilian Embassy, where military forces reinforced their position.
The Brazilian Foreign Minister, Celso Amorim, criticised the Coup Government's position.
This demonstrates the marginal character of this Government in relation with international standards, he asserted.
Zelaya, who had become closer with the socialist Venezuelan president, Hugo Chavez, had been overturned on June 28th, the day he had organised a public consultation to prepare for his re-election, going against the views of the Supreme Court, the Army and Congress.
Exiled to Costa Rica, he had made a surprise return on September 21st and had taken refuge at the Brazilian Embassy.
If he comes out, he will be arrested to answer to charges of "high treason", which the Law accuses him of, according to the Coup Government.
The Coup President, Roberto Micheletti, has managed to organise a presidential election on the 29th of November to replace Mr. Zelaya.
Porfirio Lobo was elected in the controversial vote, which was recognised by the United States, but was contested by Latin American countries such as Venezuela, Argentina, and Brazil.
Three days later, Congress voted by a landslide against Mr. Zelaya's return to power for the remainder of his term up to January 27th.
Wall Street rises, the commercial balance of the US feeds optimism
The New York Stock Exchange finished higher on Thursday, as American commercial equilibrium figures indicate a return of activity in the United States and with its partners: the Dow gained 0.67%, and the NASDAQ 0.33%.
According to the final closing figures, the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose by 68.78 points to 10 405.83 points, and the NASDAQ, with a technology dominance, rose by 7.13 points to 2 190.06 points.
The broader Standard & Poor's 500 index had a result of 0.58% (6.40 points) taking it to 1 102.35 points.
We have good news coming from various sides of the Economy, assessed Lindsey Piegza from FTN Financial.
However, this remains anecdotal evidence, she cautioned, suggesting the market was focusing on "the glass being half full".
Peter Cardillo of Avalon Partners thinks that investors have concentrated particularly on America's commercial balance figures, "which show an improvement in activity in the fourth quarter".
The US commercial deficit dropped by 7.6% in October, compared to September, to 32.9 billion dollars.
Analysts were expecting the opposite, a deepening of the deficit.
Both imports and exports increased.
The big news is the increase in trade volumes, especially in the export of goods, which reflects the economical growth of the commercial partners of the United States, commented Christopher Cornell from the research company Economy.com.
In contrast, new unemployment claims in the United States have increased beyond all expectations in the past week, to reach 474 000 claims.
However, in the last four weeks, the average number of new employment seekers "has fallen to its lowest in a year", highlighted Scott Marcouiller from Wells Fargo Advisors.
The bond market has fallen.
Treasury 10-year bond yields have grown to 3.482% against 3.423% on Tuesday evening, and 30-year bond yields are at 4.492% against 4.408% the previous evening.
Cuba: hundreds of Government supporters speak out against the "Ladies in White"
Several hundred Cuban pro-government demonstrators spoke out on Thursday against political prisoners' wives, who had gathered in Havana for International Human Rights Day, and prevented another demonstration, for which around a dozen dissidents were arrested.
Around forty "White Ladies", wives and those close to the political prisoners, were jeered at in the street by supporters of Raul Castro's government as they were marching towards the centre of the capital to demand the liberation of the political prisoners, observed an AFP reporter.
Down with the Yanks!, "Mercenaries!", "The street belongs to the Revolutionaries!", "Long live Fidel and Raul!" the pro-government supporters chanted at the dissidents, their fists raised.
These latter were escorted by plainclothes agents, who had come to "ensure their protection".
The previous evening, a similar demonstration had taken place against the "Ladies in White" in Havana without anyone being injured or arrested.
However, in the Vedado district of Havana, a dozen dissidents, who were also preparing to demonstrate Thursday for the International Human Rights Day, were arrested by plainclothes police, reported an AFP journalist.
The policemen made the dissidents, who had been jeered at by pro-government supporters, get into unmarked vehicles, according to the journalist.
Dissident arrests under similar circumstances normally only last a few hours.
Recipients of the 2005 Sakharov Prize from the European Parliament, the "Ladies in White" had organised a non-authorised march to "demand the release of all political prisoners", totalling 200 according to the dissident side, declared one of their leaders, Laura Pollan, whose husband, Hector Maceda, is serving a 20-year sentence in prison.
Mr. Maceda is part of the group of 75 Cuban dissidents arrested in March 2003, 53 of which remain behind bars.
The Cuban authorities consider the opposition as "mercenaries" or "agents" on the books of their sworn enemy, the United States.
Unusually, Cuban television covered the demonstration of pro-government supporters against the "anti-revolutionaries" on Thursday.
Cuba, lead by a single party, the Communist Party, is regularly accused by European or American NGOs of flouting rights and liberties, notably those of the freedom of expression.
A madman kills an eighty-year-old with a knife and wounds 5 at Clichy-la-Garenne
A crazed man armed with two knives has killed a man in his eighties and wounded five other people in the city centre of Clichy-la-Garenne (Hauts-de-Seine), during rush hour, towards the end of Thursday.
Having sustained severe wounds, the elderly man, born in 1929 according to the police union, Alliance, died from his injuries in the hospital.
In or in front of the same pharmacy, he then began attacking a couple, including a pregnant woman.
The husband, aged around thirty, came between them and was wounded.
The first two victims, gravely wounded, were admitted to the hospital, where the eighty-year-old man died.
The days of the other injured person may be numbered, as vital organs have apparently been affected, according to police sources.
The pregnant woman was subsequently taken ill and was hospitalised "in a state of shock", according to one police source.
He is reported to have wounded two passers-by, apparently at random: one thirty-year-old, and one forty-year-old, the latter severely.
By the evening, the scenario remained unclear.
Several passers-by, including some youngsters, attempted to overpower the madman, according to witness reports collected by the AFP.
I saw a guy of about thirty with a green jacket.
Three youths tried to intervene.
They could not manage it, because the guy was well-built, recounted Alberto, a server in a nearby bar.
A crowd fell on him, including a town policeman, who broke his wrist, he added.
The events took place on one of Clichy-la-Garenne's main streets, where many local businesses operate.
Some passers-by came to tell me that there was someone injured outside.
Five minutes later, a second person arrived, aged around thirty, with knife wounds.
National police officers were the ones who arrested the man, who was not carrying any identification documents.
The case will be brought to the Nanterre Public Prosecutor's Office by the region's police service for Hauts-de-Seine (SDPJ 92).
The madman was taken to a hospital on Thursday evening.
He had not yet had a chance to speak after being taken into custody.
A police source did not exclude the possibility of him being committed to a psychiatric hospital.
According to another police source, six policemen were needed to subdue the man at the police station in Clichy, where he was taken.
He was "in a state of hyperexcitement" as are "all crazed people of this kind, whose strength increases tenfold under its effect".
USA: Polanski's lawyer calls afresh for proceedings to be dropped
The lawyer of the Franco-Polish film director, Roman Polanski, called again in Los Angeles on Thursday (California, western United States), for the abandonment of proceedings against his client, who is currently under house arrest in Switzerland for a vice case that is over 30 years old.
Chad Hummel, the lawyer for the director of "The Pianist" cited grave errors in the procedures at the time of the events in 1977, in front of three judges at the Court of Appeal of California's second district.
I am calling for charges to be dropped here and now, declared Mr. Hummel, before adding that the behaviour of the judge, who was dealing with the case at the time, Laurence Rittenband, "sends chills down the spine".
According to him, judge Rittenband -- since deceased -- is said to have spoken with one of the prosecutors, who told him that Roman Polanski deserved prison, before passing sentence -- constituting a serious error in procedure.
This discussion had been revealed in the documentary "Roman Polanski: wanted and desired", the words coming straight from the prosecutor in question, David Wells.
However, Mr. Wells had eventually declared that he had "lied" to the author of the documentary at the end of September.
In the event of the court's refusal to abandon proceedings, Mr. Hummel called for a trial to be held, which would allow him to present evidence to back his arguments.
The Prosecution, for its part, has re-iterated its argument, already formed in the first instance, that no abandonment of the charges could be seriously looked at while Roman Polanski did not present himself in court.
The 76-year-old filmmaker had fled the United States before his sentence had been passed for "unlawful sexual relations" with a 13-year-old minor.
He has not set foot in the United States since.
The deputy prosecutor for Los Angeles County, Phyllis Asayama, therefore declared that Roman Polanski "must be present at the hearing".
For this case, are we trying to send the message, not just to (Roman Polanski) but also other defendants, that it is ok to flee? asked Mrs. Asayama.
In her view, the filmmaker "is asking a favour from the court, while at the same time showing disregard for its authority".
One of the three judges -- who now have 90 days to return their verdict -- has also emphasised "that there are other alternatives to fleeing".
Mr. Hummel was not the only one to request that proceedings against Roman Polanski be abandoned.
The lawyer of Samantha Geimer, the victim, also called once again for an end to the proceedings.
Reminding that her client can no longer stand to be harassed with every resurfacing of the Polanski case, she added: "No one in this room can claim that this was a just procedure.
Thirty two years is enough".
Roman Polanski was arrested on the 26th of September in Switzerland on an American warrant.
After more than two months behind bars, he was put under house arrest at his chalet in Gstaad, pending his possible extradition.
Wall Street closes without momentum, slowed by a strengthening dollar
The New York Stock Exchange closed with no particular heading on Friday, in a market torn between better than expected indicators in the United States and a strengthening dollar: the Dow Jones gained 0.63% but the NASDAQ dropped 0.03%.
According to final closing figures, the Dow Jones Industrial Average has risen by 65.67 points to 10 471.50 points, whereas the NASDAQ, with a technology predominance, fell by 0.55 point to 2 190.31 points.
The wider Standard & Poor's 500 has itself advanced by 0.37% (4.06 points) to 1 106.41 points.
Frankly, the market is very calm, observes Mace Blicksilver of Marblehead Asset Management.
It remains within a narrow margin; trading volumes have become very weak, and I think that this will remain the case until the end of the year.
The trend was supported by the publication of better than expected economic indicators, which "have contributed to improving market opinion in relation to the robustness of the economic recovery", summarised Charles Schwab's analysts.
In the United States, retail sales have increased by 1.3% in November, for the second month in a row, and far more than predicted.
Moreover, the confidence of American consumers has clearly bounced back in December, to 73.4 against 67.4 the previous month, according to preliminary estimates from Michigan University's index.
The indices have, however, been slowed by a renewed rise of the dollar, to a new two-month high against the Euro, which "puts downward pressure on the sectors that are sensitive to the economic situation", explained Owen Fitzpatrick from Deutsche Bank.
Technology securities have thereby lost some ground.
The bond market has fallen.
Treasury 10-year bond yields have grown to 3.540% against 3.482% on Tuesday evening, and 30-year bond yields are at 4.497% against 4.492% the previous evening.
Miss World pageant once again in South Africa
After a month-long trek across South Africa, the 112 candidates for the title of Miss World are preparing to enter the final straight on Saturday to make their dream come true: to be voted the most beautiful woman in the world in front of a billion television viewers.
During this grand beauty congregation organised for the second consecutive year around Johannesburg, five of them have already landed their tickets to the semi-final.
Miss Japan, Eruza Sasaki, Perla Beltran Acosta of Mexico, Mariatu Kargbo of Sierra Leone, Kaiane Aldorino from Gibraltar, and Yanbing Ma from Canada have been elected Miss World Sportswoman or also Miss World Top Model during their African stay.
It was a real whirlwind.
To visit beautiful cities like Port Elizabeth, Durban, and Cape Town is extraordinary.
I saw so many things and I have so much new experience, said Miss of Sierra Leone.
This competition, which is taking place in South Africa for the ninth time, will be transmitted live on Saturday from Midrand, north of Johannesburg, starting at 17:00 (15:00 GMT).
I could not have dreamed of a better country to award my crown.
The experience was fascinating.
I am pleased to have been able to live it twice, points out Miss World Ksenia Sukhinova in the heat of the southern summer.
For the young Russian, her second visit to South Africa has been made memorable by the many talks with candidates and the re-discovery "of landscapes in this country that take your breath away".
After a month of galas, rehearsals, press meetings, and safaris, the Miss candidates are concentrating on the competition.
The Indian Pooja Chopra hopes to follow in the footsteps of Priyanka Chopra, elected in 2000 and present at this vote, as well as those of Aishwarya Rai in 1994, both of whom have become stars of Bollywood.
It is the dream of every woman to be crowned the most beautiful woman in the world, but it is not all about appearance.
We are ambassadors for our countries and I want to return home with the crown, asserts Miss India with a broad smile.
According to organisers, music and dance will mark this 59th edition.
Candidates will parade in traditional outfits and, of course, in swimsuits.
The show will be presented by Angela Chow, an ethnic Chinese television presenter, the South African ex-beauty queen Michelle McLean, and an officer from the Miss World Committee, Steve Douglas.
South Africa showed that it could welcome the world with a warmth and pride that is difficult to better, affirms Julia Morley, president of Miss World.
The candidates went on safari, as they did last year, visited the famous township of Soweto, but this time by bicycle, and sampled the local cuisine.
Exceptionally, they also met the South African president, Jacob Zuma, who shook their hands.
Unusual for a head of State, notes Miss Sierra Leone.
Their most beautiful memory will probably be the World Cup draw in Cape Town (Southwest) for football in June 2010, a way for the country to promote the event a little more.
I have mixed with people I never thought I would be able to approach.
I will without a doubt be returning for the 2010 World Cup, enthuses Miss Italy, Alice Taticchi.
The news about Johnny Hallyday "is very positive", according to son David
The news about Johnny Hallyday "is very positive", assures his son, David, on Friday arriving at the airport in Los Angeles, where he was to be by his father's bedside, who has been in hospital for several days.
The news is very positive.
He is very strong, all will go well, declared his son, David Hallyday, to the Press on leaving the plane from Paris just after 13:00 local time (21:00 GMT).
The singer was "put in an artificial coma tonight in Los Angeles for comfort reasons, to prevent his suffering, and to allow his treatment to be administered", indicated the press service.
The singer had to be operated on in the night from Wednesday to Thursday because of significant lesions resulting from the operation.
His wife, Laeticia, went on Friday morning to the Los Angeles French High School, where their daughter Jade is enrolled, to attend a school performance, observed an AFP photographer.
They told us it was carnage.
The Los Angeles surgeons said they were aghast, declared Mr. Camus.
I heard talk of possible legal proceedings to come, he said.
Jean-Claude Camus reckoned that Johnny Hallyday had "left far too soon for Los Angeles, with the Paris surgeon's authorisation".
I had this doctor on the phone in person, and he assured me that there was no problem for this trip, which shocked me, as I, myself, have had two slipped discs, he added.
Shortly before, on RTL, he had indicated that the singer apparently "had left without a drain or anything", following his Paris operation.
He had operated on the actress Marie Trintignant in Vilnius a few days before her death at a clinic in Neuilly-sur-Seine, where he practiced at the time.
In 2007, he had also operated on the actress Charlotte Gainsbourg to resorb a haematoma, following a cerebral haemorrhage.
However, he is also a doctor with a notorious reputation, convicted by the Law on several occasions, in cases of medical liability, as well as for fraud and tax evasion.
Olivier Metzner, the lawyer for the Doctors' governing body, accused him of being "a man without scruples", who "regularly" has to answer to the governing body's Council, and who is "far from reputable".
The latter indicated that the operation had "gone perfectly well" and that post-operation tests returned "normal".
The operation "was not haemorrhagic and therefore did not required a drain to be fitted", he added.
In any case, the singer's tour, for whom health problems have been multiplying since the summer, would seem to be on hold.
Clearly, resuming the tour on the 8th of January [in Amiens] as planned seems very soon, declared Mr. Camus.
The UDF alliance speaks out and orders the New Centre party to stop using its acronym
The Defence Minister, whose party is partner to the UMP, had in fact planned to confirm this strategy on Saturday before the NC's national Council.
You also thought it acceptable to include in your campaign literature and on your website's homepage the movement's name, the New Centre, and to follow it with the slogan: today's UDF, remark those who signed the document.
As you are well aware, you have no right to the use of the acronym, explains the UDF's office, requiring that the NC remove "immediately any mention of the UDF name from all material, and from (their) internet site".
If you failed to do this, the matter would be referred to the courts to ensure that the Law and the legitimate rights of UDF members were respected, warn the document's signatories.
In their communication, they specify that the UDF "is a political movement in its own right since 1978" and points out that Mr. Morin and his friends had "made their choice" to leave him in 2007 "to create a competing movement, as others had done in 2002, to establish the UMP".
The New Centre, according to them, has therefore no right to the use of the UDF acronym (Union for French Democracy).
He is profiting in a scandalous and fraudulent manner from the absence of a registered trademark for the UDF acronym by taking it to benefit his own account.
This incident is turning into a major offence, they state, before adding ironically about the NC's strategy that: "in our opinion, in politics as in real life, it is more dignified to make one's own name rather than try to become somebody by fraudulently acquiring a name we have no right to".
The photographer, 62, known for his photographs of the stars, will be tried on the 15th and 16th of April 2010 for "abuse of weakness", an offence that carries a maximum penalty of three years in prison and a 375 000 euro fine.
However, the 15th Magistrate's Court has also ordered a combined expert medical opinion of Liliane Bettencourt, aged 87, to be led by three doctors.
The doctors nominated on Friday will have to submit a report by the 10th of March, 2010, stating, in particular, whether Liliane Bettencourt could have found herself in a weakened state and at which times.
I think she will submit to it.
I will talk with her about it, declared Mrs. Bettencourt's lawyer, Georges Kiejman, at the exit of the hearing.
As far as she is concerned, Liliane Bettencourt has always refuted having been manipulated by the photographer, who she considers a long-standing friend.
As the court on Friday was due to examine the admissibility of the case brought by Mrs. Bettencourt-Meyers, the pleas from the lawyers at times turned proceedings into an unveiling of intimate family matters.
In the letter dated from 2003, Liliane Bettencourt added, according to the lawyer: "could you explain to my daughter that I wrote to Mr. Banier once or twice a day for fifteen years."
For its part, the Court in Nanterre has again ruled that the plaintiff's claim was not admissible for action, all the more so after a judge supervising guardianship refused her request in the past few days to initiate a procedure allowing legal protection for her mother.
Liliane Bettencourt "is fully capable of participating in legal proceedings, she is not under protection and does not have a guardian.
Nobody needs to act on her behalf", affirms the Public Prosecution's representative, Marie-Christine Daubigney.
The Court determined that it would make a ruling once the case concerning the admissibility of Mrs. Bettencourt-Meyers's claim had taken place.
A management revolution or the end of competitive intelligence?
For over ten years, the Management's attitude in large enterprises towards their employees reflects the position of enterprises and their consumers before the marketing revolution: employees should be made to adhere to "values" dictated from above just as it was in the past, when products dreamed up by the factory's engineers were dropped on the consumer.
By placing the consumer at the heart of the organisation, the marketing revolution put the strategies for conquering markets the right way up again... even if authoritarian temptation to impose products, which are disconnected from the preferences of the consumer tend to resurface regularly!
A demobilisation of employees can lead to terminal demoralisation.
Suicides at France Telecom, PSA and Renault are only the visible part of a far more widespread problem that affects management employees in particular.
Demobilisation gravely compromises the development of an organisation's strategic functions, notably in R&D, but even more so in competitive intelligence.
Indeed, CI "demands from all sides concerned (...) a proactive approach and a long-term vision"; it requires from employees a commitment that is entirely contradicted by authoritarian management methods.
For this reason, we are calling for a management revolution, which would consist in placing employees at the centre of an enterprise's concerns alongside consumers.
The very relative usefulness of internal opinion surveys
Will internal opinion surveys - such as those given by Orange to its employees - stimulate this revolution in managerial methods?
Unfortunately, I fear it will not.
- Firstly, because I have witnessed that, when faced with a new situation, any organisation will arrive, after many detours, at doing chiefly... what it always does!
- Next, because authoritarianism - a disease of power - grows proportionally with the magnitude of its own failures.
- Finally, because most leaders have a simplistic view of human behaviour.
Coming from the top technical educational establishments, they have a mechanistic interpretation of psychology.
They adopt, for intellectual convenience, the old behaviourist theory, which has recently been re-awakened by the "neuro-sciences" of the United States that have been widely and silently diffused by business institutes and the Media.
In this way, by suggesting that "levers" [sic] can be pulled for the commitment of management staff, a recent Ipsos survey published on Figaro.fr cradles leaders into a position of mechanistic governance, which is unsuited to the world of today.
Identify and quantify mobilisation factors
In contrast, the management revolution needed for the correct functioning of modern enterprises supposes the adoption of a finalistic vision of human behaviour.
It consists in the integration, within all management strategies and practices, of a fundamental admission: for employees, commitment to the enterprise is only possible if it is clearly perceived as a means to realising a part of their dreams, their ambitions, and their plans.
Currently, only studies produced through motivation factor analysis adopt the concept of employee motivation.
These studies have demonstrated that they form a view of their organisation based on a pre-determined consensus of opinion, which allows them, by means of this perceived view, to evaluate what it offers them to achieve their life plans.
By identifying and gauging these mobilisation factors, enterprise leaders can control, predict and anticipate their "social performance" and turn their management of resources "the right way round".
They thereby create a favourable terrain for the concerted development of robust and effective competitive intelligence.
Oslo speech: the "just war" earns Obama praise from the Right
The American Right paid tribute to the speech given the previous evening in Oslo by Barack Obama, satisfied that the Nobel Peace Prize 2009 had defended the concept of a "just war" against the enemies of the United States.
The conservatives, who had mocked the awarding of the Prize to Obama on October 9th, were this time giving the presidential speech their applause, lead by Sarah Palin, former vice-president candidate during the 2008 elections.
I liked what he said, declared Mrs. Palin, right-wing champion of the Republican party, to the daily newspaper USA Today, adding that she had herself touched on the topic of war that is "sometimes necessary" in her memoirs, which have just been published.
War is, of course, one of the last things, which Americans want to get involved in, but it is necessary.
We must stop these terrorists over there, she affirmed.
Mr. Obama, who has inherited the two wars from his predecessor, George W. Bush, in Iraq and Afghanistan, applied himself on Thursday in Oslo to justifying resorting to force, a way to explain his decision to send 30 000 additional troops to Afghanistan nine days earlier.
Another one of Mr. Obama's opponents, Newt Gingrich, concluded that the president had done "very good work" in Oslo.
I found his speech to be really very good, approved the former Speaker in the House of Representatives, who had particularly valued the mention that "Evil does exist in the world" in the presidential discourse.
From certain viewpoints, I found this speech to be of historic significance, declared Mr. Gingrich, during an interview for the radio show "The Takeaway".
The former representative, considered by some a possible candidate for the Republican inauguration of the 2012 presidential elections, was delighted to see "a president from the Left" remind the Noble Committee members "that they would not be free and in a position to award a peace prize if resorting to force had not been an option".
For Michael Gerson, a former writer for George W. Bush and re-converted columnist for the Washington Post, Mr. Obama has given "a very American speech".
As well as presenting himself as a "world citizen", as "he always does", "he spoke like an American President", reminding Europeans "that they live in a security bubble, which they did not create and they are doing little to preserve", declared Mr. Gerson.
Among the few unconvinced right-wingers, a hawkish character from the Bush era, the former UN ambassador, John Bolton, described the speech as "drab, turgid, and uninspired" on the National Review Online's website.
To the president's left, the democratic representative Dennis Kucinich was alarmed to see Barack Obama justify resorting to force.
When we wrap war inside the notion of justice, the massacre of innocent people can easily be justified, he warned.
Centre-left Press nevertheless remained full of praise for the president.
The Los Angeles Times, still of the opinion that the Nobel Prize had been prematurely awarded to Mr. Obama, described his address as "a blockbuster", even for a speaker that is known for his talent.
The Oslo speech "should serve as a roadmap for guiding international decisions made on conflicts, poverty and oppression", enthused the Californian newspaper.
Mr. Obama "made the speech that was needed", reports the New York Times, judging it "both sombre and edifying".
Road freight: three marathons for one agreement to save Christmas deliveries
Following three marathon sessions of negotiations, transport unions and the TLF, the only employer's organisation to have remained to the end, reached an agreement on Friday evening that will end the strike order and the threat on Christmas deliveries.
During the signing on Friday evening, Transport Secretary Dominique Bussereau was "delighted" with the agreement after several rounds of negotiations on Wednesday morning.
After a second night of discussions, negotiating sides left in the small hours with the hope of a swift signing of the agreement's text later in the morning.
And this, despite three employers' organisations (FNTR, UNOSTRA, OTRE) having slammed the door.
However, it took a further six hours from a meeting that started at 11am for everyone to be in agreement, and for the text to be signed at 6pm.
The disagreement "would have been very damaging for the companies" and "it looked like it might threaten the end of year festivities", Mr. Bussereau stated.
The document allows for a 4% increase in salaries for the lowest ones (in local and regional road transport), and a 2.9% increase for higher ones (international transport).
Hourly rates, for those on lower pay, "go from 8.72 euros to 9.06.
It is not much, but we have come a long way, explains Patrice Clos (Worker's Union).
This evening we will give the order to our campaigners not to form blockades or picket at delivery depots.
There may, however, always be a few difficult ones, who remain uncooperative, he added.
Philippe Grillot, president of the TLF, paid tribute to "a good agreement", even if it was "difficult to concede the increases on the higher salaries given international competition".
According to him, the increases will be of the order of 170 euros per month for the lower salaries and from 100 to 120 euros for the higher ones.
It is a common sense agreement, respecting the workers, declared Maxime Dumont (CFDT), while Thierry Douine (CFTC) praised it as "a historic agreement".
As for Richard Jaubert (CGT), he described it as "an acceptable compromise".
The agreement also allows for a rise in travel expenses of 3% and maintaining current general road transport conditions for the first half of 2010, which will give room for dealing with the questions of a 13th month's pay and the modernisation of the collective labour agreement.
Mr. Bussereau reminded everyone that "a 100 million euro cut in employers' charges" had been the subject of a Government amendment in corrective financial legislation for 2009, voted on in the night from Thursday to Friday at the National Assembly.
The Government will ask that the Senate vote on it "in the same timeframe".
The signature from the TLF allows the agreement to be applied in the first instance to all the companies that are members of the organisation, and secondly, to the whole profession, subject to it being extended by the Minister for Labour.
It will be done "in a very short time", assures Mr. Bussereau.
The opposing employers' organisations can only delay the process.
The FNTR called it a "sham", because the 100 million euros "had already been promised to the sector in compensation for part of the carbon tax".
The Transport Secretary urgently forced us to the negotiating table, not with the aim of a two-sided review, but to avoid upsetting the turkey-eaters this Christmas, deplores the UNOSTRA.
For the OTRE, the agreement risks "digging the graves of a large number of the sector's SMEs over the next 12 months".
RER A: disruptions this weekend, unions unhappy with RATP proposals
Disruptions on the RER A, the largest urban public transport link in France, are set to continue over the weekend, as a meeting on Friday, the second day of strikes, between the unions and the RATP management have left their pay demands unmet.
The Galeries Lafayette, who welcome 200 000 customers every day, were delighted by the fact that "the RATP is making efforts to assist the department stores".
The RER A runs through the Parisian conurbation from West to East.
On Friday, approximately one out of two trains ran at peak times, with almost no trains at all during off-peak periods, as planned.
As on Thursday, there was no trouble with crowds on the platforms, as Parisians had gotten themselves organised.
Thus, in the early hours, the station at Saint-Germain-en-Laye (Yvelines) was far less busy than usual, notably because of the absence of school and college students.
The Saint-Lazare station did not see any overcrowding, the SNCF stated, having planned for additional support staff and police officers.
The RER A trains operated by the SNCF to or from Cergy-Le-Haut were departing or arriving from Saint-Lazare station, where they link with the metro.
New general meetings for strikers will be held on Saturday and Sunday, which will review the results, seen as "poor" by the unions, of a meeting with Management held on Friday afternoon.
It is not what the drivers, who are demanding the bonus they are owed, want, according to Thierry Garon (SUD).
The RATP has even put its offer of bonuses on hold, the CGT complained, pointing out that the management "could not be bothered to resolve the problem, whereas road transport and the SNCF both have it done and dusted".
A new meeting is scheduled on Monday for "a wider review of the conditions of practice for the profession", the RATP elaborated.
Prompting the unions to remark further that the company "did not care about its weekend passengers".
During the morning, some 150 drivers invaded a works council meeting at the company's seat in Paris.
That is when Management, which had until then refused to enter into any discussions during the strike, had suggested the meeting "in a motion to calm the situation".
The RER drivers, all in the later stages of their careers, are paid a gross salary of 2200 to 2700 euros as well as 600 to 650 euros of bonus pay for split shifts, Sundays and holidays.
Turkish justice bans the pro-Kurd party, a decision laden with consequences
The Turkish Constitutional Court returned a verdict on Friday for the dissolution of the country's main pro-Kurd party, a decision which was immediately followed by angry protests within the Kurdish community in the Southeast of the country and in Istanbul.
The decision is likely to greatly complicate the Government's work, as it has just recently made positive gestures towards the Kurdish community in an attempt to resolve a 25-year old conflict.
The DTP occupies 21 seats in Parliament (out of 550).
Its leaders had warned prior to the verdict that the representatives would leave Parliament rather than take their seats as representatives with no affiliation.
Many observers believe the DTP serves as a legal political shop window for the PKK rebels.
The party maintains, however, that it has "no organic links" with the PKK, but refuses to recognise it as a terrorist organisation and is calling for the Government to open negotiations with it.
The court's verdict comes at a time when the Government has extended its hand to the Kurdish community by proposing a series of measures, reinforcing its rights in an attempt to quash Kurdish support for the PKK and put an end to the conflict.
As soon as the Law made its announcement, a thousand protesters gathered before the DTP's buildings in Diyarbakir, the Southeast's main city, populated mainly by Kurds.
Police forces fired tear-gas grenades and used water cannons, as demonstrators threw Molotov cocktails and stones with slings.
Around a hundred people also demonstrated in Istanbul.
Turkey cannot resolve this [Kurdish] issue by banning a party, he told the Press.
The Government, a party rooted in Islamic influences, also condemned the decision.
We are opposed on principle to the closing down of parties.
It does not solve anything, declared the Energy Minister, Taner Yildiz.
This decision puts a blowtorch to the Government's democratic olive branch, comments political analyst Ahmet Insel.
Of course, we can expect a reaction from the PKK, he added.
On Thursday, the PKK claimed responsibility for an attack that killed seven soldiers in the North of Turkey three days earlier, one of the bloodiest in the last few months.
The snow can come
A really hard, frosty winter, that is what Wolfgang Brauburger is wishing for.
Not because he wants to make a laughing stock of people, says the the head of the FES winter road maintenance service.
But so that his employees can try out and learn every facit of their vehicle's technology.
This may be the case for the first time this weekend, according to meteorologists.
More than 330 employees and 120 vehicles are ready to take care of the snow and ice.
Here, the FES is proceeding according to a precise plan.
As soon as Frankfurt is blanketed in snow and the temperatures drop below zero, 20 so-called "A Routes" are serviced by large-scale distribution vehicles, explains Brauburger.
These include, for instance, main traffic roads and through roads, such as Neue Weg and Hanauer Landstrasse.
But also fire roads, public transport routes, pedestrian zones and roads with slopes, such as Atzelbergstrasse.
The service of the FES starts at three in the morning
The approx. 1,040 km would, if necessary, have to be gritted with wet salt, which has better adhesive properties, within no more than three hours.
That is why the FES start at three in the morning, "so the routes are free by the time commuter traffic starts".
It becomes difficult when it only begins snowing at 7.30 am.
Then we are faced with a problem, says the head of the winter road service, "because nobody is prepared to make way for the gritting vehicles".
Only then, unless it continues to snow, is it the turn of approach and connecting roads, which also include Rat-Beil-Strasse.
The last priority are quiet side and minor roads.
That is where complaints are made, knows Brauburger.
At five in the morning, the footmen of the FES set to work, and dangerous areas and passages are cleared.
The FES can usually not attend to all bike routes.
There is a special service in Frankfurt, which keeps an eye on the bridges, in particular from 10 pm until 4.30 am, says Brauburger.
As slippery ice quickly forms on them, the gritter sets off as soon as temperatures drop below two degrees centigrade.
Where required, it is also called out by the police.
The cradle of the dinosaurs
Tawa Hallae looked like many other carnivorous dinosaurs: The animal, standing two metres tall and with a length of 1.50 metres on two strong hind legs, had a longish skull with sharp, curved teeth, short arms with sickle-shaped claws and a long tail.
If the species had lived a couple of million years later, it would not be anything special.
But Tawa Hallae was one of the first dinosaurs with such physical features, reports Sterling Nesbitt and his colleagues at the University of Texas in Austin in Science magazine of Thursday.
The animal lived about 215 million years in what is today New Mexico, which was back then in a dry zone of the super continent Pangaea at the equator.
Tawa opens a new window to the early evolution of dinosaurs, says Nesbitt.
It reveals a great deal about the relationships, the spread, and the features of early dinosaurs.
In 2006 Nesbitt and the other palaeontologists started an excavation on the Ghost Ranch in northern New Mexico.
"On some days we found dozen dinosaur bones, that is exemplary for sediments from the Triassic period," reports team member Randall Irmis of the Utah Museum of Natural History.
The scientists identified some bones quickly.
During the excavations, they collected the remains of a total of five creatures.
Find confirms theories on early dinosaur history
The name Tawa comes from the sun god of the Hopi Indians.
For Sterling Nesbitt, it is an exceptional find: "Dinosaur fossils from the Triassic period are extremely rare. Mostly, only individual fragments are found."
Other dinosaur researchers do not quite share this enthusiasm.
"This find is not particularly spectacular, but it does confirm some theories on the early history of dinosaurs." says Martin Sander of the University of Bonn, for instance.
According to current doctrine, the dinosaurs appeared for the first time about 230 million years ago.
But many of the oldest fossils are incomplete, for which reason the classification of these primal dinosaurs is highly contentious.
As such, the experts debated, for instance, when the saurians split into the three most important lines of development: the carnivorous theropods, which later included Tyrannosaurus rex, the Velociraptor and birds, the four-legged sauropods known as the "long necks" and their relatives, and the plant-eating Ornithischiae (bird-hipped saurians), which included, for instance, the Triceratops and Stegosaurus species.
According the analysis of Nesbitt and his colleagues, Tawa Hallae is a primal theropod.
It has an interesting combination of primitive and progressive properties, says Nesbitt.
On the skull of Tawa Hallae, for instance, the scientists found indications of air bags, as the descendants of the theropods, birds, have.
Thanks to the air bags, the breathing of birds is more efficient than that of mammals.
Tawa Hallae's bones of the spine were obviously also partly filled with air.
Tawa is the oldest and most primitive theropod with air bags, says Randall Irmis.
As the related line of the huge sauropods later also had air bags and lightweight bones, the joint ancestor of these two groups will probably have come up with this useful innovation.
At least three migration waves to North America
As the most primitive dinosaurs known to date lived in South America, the scientists come to the conclusion that the saurians appeared there first.
Accordingly, the three lines of development separated early on and spread from South America across all parts of the planet, which still formed a single land mass as the super continent Pangaea.
This theory is backed up by the fact that the team found two more theropods which are not particularly closely related along with the remains of Tawa Hallae.
The three cannot possibly descend from a common ancestor. So they must have migrated there, is the scientists argument.
We believe that there were at least three migration waves to North America, says Alan Turner of the American Museum of Natural History in New York, a co-author of the Science study.
But there are of course contradictions.
An older species, Silesaurus, which belongs to a sister group of the dinosaurs, lived in what is today Poland, says the Bonn-based palaeontologist Martin Sander.
He believes that a distorted picture may emerge simply because a high number of primitive dinosaur fossils have survived over the years, while there is hardly anything to be found on other continents.
How dinosaurs managed to develop from a relatively rare sidearm of the reptile tree to become the ruling tetrapod vertebrate of the Mesozoic, is still anybody's guess.
During the Triassic period, the dinosaurs still shared their habitat with a large amount of other reptiles, for instance with the ancestors of today's crocodile and pterosaurs and with numerous other saurians.
Towards the end of the Triassic period, the dinosaurs spread across the globe and developed many new species, while their relatives died out on the threshold from the Triassic to the Jurassic periods.
Success story did not last for ever
There are two theories to explain this switch, says Martin Sander.
There may have been a case of mass dying, which the dinosaurs randomly survived but not the other reptiles.
Or the dinosaurs were better adjusted, meaning that they were able to beat off the competition.
In any event, the success story did not last for ever.
150 million years later, a meteorite impact helped a group of animals, which had also developed back in the Triassic period and since lived in the shadows to blossom: the mammals.
Solidarity from Vienna to Sao Paulo
The list is long and the signatories international.
Professors of Toronto University are on it, as are those from the University of Cambridge, the University of Vienna and Berkeley in California.
Lecturers from Naples are included, from Quebec, Edinburgh, New York, Sao Paulo, Berlin or Bremen.
The vacation by the police of the Casino of the Frankfurt Goethe University is having repercussions throughout the world.
278 professors and teaching assistants of the Goethe University, but also of colleges from all over Germany, Europe and North and South America are showing their solidarity with the protesting students on the Westend campus.
In a statement written in both German and English, they "condemn" the police action initiated by the executive committee.
Five students were hurt in the action.
The material damage, the signatories argue, does not justify "the forceful dissolution of self-organised courses of students and lecturers by a police commando unit".
The vacation represents "an inacceptable infringement" on the freedom of research and teaching.
The exclusive focus on vandalism serves "to deligitimise and criminalise the protest" and distracts from the matter.
The executive committee has refused to enter into the necessary discourse.
The teaching staff demand the immediate termination of the criminal prosecution.
The majority of the occupiers did not support the damage to property, read the statement.
Protest legitimised
The youth ranks of the Verdi Union and the German Association of Unions are also showing their solidarity with the students.
The protest is a legitimate expression of a growing concern for their own future, says Verdi State Youth Secretary Alexander Klein.
We are grateful to the university president.
Destruction and occupation are absolutely inacceptable means, the said in a topical session on Thursday in the Wiesbaden parliament.
We have sympathy for the protest, but cannot accept vandalism, said the CDU parliament member Peter Beuth.
A different stance was taken by the opposition parties - the SPD, Greens and Left Party.
The CDU is taking besmirched walls as the pretext to criminalise the protest, said Janine Wissler (Left Party).
Instead of taking the students' arguments and students seriously, they organised this vacation.
The Left Party has filed an application calling on the Minister of Internal Affairs to report on the police action.
A new Silicon Valley
For many years, it was a secret city, inaccessible to Westerners.
Zelenograd, one of ten districts in the capital Moscow, was a highly guarded location for secret arms research during the Soviet Union.
Nowadays, the municipality with its 216,000 inhabitants 37 km from Moscow centre is regarded as Russia's Silicon Valley.
Important research and production facilities for micro and nano technology are located here.
In September 2008, representatives of Zelenograd made contacts with the Frankfurt science centre in Riedberg - with the university institutes and the companies of the Frankfurt Innovation Centre (FIZ).
There were several visits, and on Wednesday Zelenograd and Riedberg finally signed a "protocol for closer cooperation" in Frankfurt on Wednesday.
The Moscow Deputy Mayor, Yuri Roslyak, and Prefect Anatoly Smirnov of Zelenograd led the Russian delegation and Economic Affairs Head Edwin Schwarz signed on behalf of Frankfurt.
In 2010 representatives of the FIZ and small- and medium-sized companies focusing on research in natural science will travel to Zelenograd for a seminar.
Scientific exchange
The idea is to establish continuous scientific exchange.
But business relations are also being eyed.
Companies of the FIZ will have the option to get a foothold in the growing Russian market.
In turn, Russian businesses want to win orders in Germany.
Zelenograd is the headquarters to the most important Russian research institutes and companies.
These include, for instance, the Moscow Institute of Electrophysics, and major companies such as Sitronics and Rossiyskaya Elektronika.
The municipality was founded in 1958 as a so-called "socialist planned city" for arms research.
Zelenograd (verbatim "green city") got its name from the wooded hills where the research facilities are located.
A Stuttgart brake block
The impact and dimensions of Stuttgart 21 cannot be overestimated.
For its supporters, the project deals no less than with the "new heart of Europe".
Stuttgart 21 warn born out of the spirit of the 1980s.
Terminus stations with rails ending in the middle of towns were regarded as fossils of the 19th century in terms of traffic technology, which acted like brake blocks to contemporary rail traffic, as it used to take an awful lot of time to shift engines from back to front.
Pull in, stop briefly, pull out - that's the plan.
And therefore, terminus stations were supposed to disappear: as in Frankfurt and Munich.
And in Stuttgart: a non-terminus station, which is approximately half way along the trans-European rail line between Paris and Budapest/Bratislava - hence the slogan of the "heart of Europe".
S21 is actually being built now, although the vision of the 1980s has no longer been compatible with the reality for years.
Even very ambitious planners have recognised that it is virtually unpayable to lower the stations in the capitals of Hesse and Bavaria.
Terminus stations also no longer have pulling in and out problems since the development of push-pull trains with railway traction units and control cabs at either end.
And still: Stuttgart 21 along with the new ICE route to Ulm is now being started.
State and municipal politicians have enforced it.
German Rail is participating, also because the risks of the Republic's biggest single infrastructure project will be borne by the taxpayer and not the state company.
As regards urban development, the development can be more or less justified.
An urban area is being created which, if the planners' computer-generated graphics are to be believed, will feature a lot of green.
For the rail traffic system, S21 is damaging.
The non-terminus railway station and the line extension are designed for passenger transportation, which - typical for the 1980s - is estimated to see huge growth.
At the time, there was no competition from no-frills airlines.
Contemporary traffic policy, however, should be prioritising the handling of freight transportation, as transport by rail far more environmentally friendly than by lorry on the road.
But the line to be built is not suitable for freight trains due to steep slopes.
More seriously, S21 also affects many other rail projects.
A good six billion euros are to be buried in the Swabian land.
That is the official figure.
Experts expect ten to fifteen billion to be more realistic.
One thing is for sure, the money will be missing at other nodes and bottlenecks in the network over the next decade.
A total of sixty major projects are on the list of the transport ministry.
One of the most important ones is to expand the some 180 km of the line through the Rhine valley.
Work has been continuing on the line in slow motion since 1987.
It is urgent to really put the foot down here.
But S21 will act as a brake block.
The Rhine valley line will become a bottleneck for international freight transportation: right in the heart of Europe.
Government reviewing verdict on airport
The state government did not decide in parliament whether it would appeal against the verdict of Hesse's Administrative Court (VGH) to ban night flights.
The CDU/FDP coalition has commissioned experts to review the 400+-page VGH verdict, said economics minister Dieter Posch (FDP).
The VGH in Kassel recently confirmed in writing that the state would have to reorganise the ban on night flights in the event of building the planned northwest runway at Frankfurt Airport.
According to the verdict, the granting of 17 flights between 11 pm and 5 am, as planned by the state government, is not compatible with the protection of the population from flight noise as specified by law.
The coalition must decide by 4 January whether it will appeal the verdict.
The opposition criticised this delay and called upon the government representatives to do without an appeal before the Federal Administrative Court in Leipzig.
It is bloody difficult when you are allowed to keep one's word, said Greens leader Tarek Al-Wazir, alluding to the FDP election slogan "We keep our word".
A detailed legal examination would take time.
The coalition does not want to operate on the basis of "a brief first impression".
As presented by the opposition, his party never made any statements regarding the ban on night flights.
US banks repay state support
The crisis-hit US major banks are breaking free from their state shackles.
On Wednesday Bank of America repaid the support from the bank protection fund TARP in the amount USD 45 billion (nearly EUR 30 billion) in one go.
And, according to reports from US broadcaster CNBC, Citigroup is also planning to repay the state support.
The institutions thereby want to wiggle themselves free from the restrictions going hand-in-hand with the acceptance of the money, such as the limits on manager bonuses and the paying of high charges.
Bank of America had raised some USD 19 billion from investors through convertible loans.
The rest of the amount was taken from its own kitty, which was well filled through the sale of business units.
Bank head Kenneth Lewis extended his express thanks to the American taxpayer on Wednesday evening: The cash injection helped over a very difficult time.
The bank overstretched at the height of the financial crisis by taking over the investment bank Merrill Lynch.
Citigroup also plans to raise cash on the capital market to free itself from its liabilities with the state.
Already on Thursday, the US bank was able to announce a capital increase of some USD 20 billion, reported CNBC with reference to circles.
A Citigroup spokesman declined to comment.
Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan Chase and Morgan Stanley had already repaid their support in June.
A quick choice
It all happened a lot faster than expected.
Barely two weeks after the ZDF board of directors had pushed the acting editor-in-chief Nikolaus Brender out of office, the broadcaster is able to present his successor.
Yesterday evening, the committee wanted to vote on the appointment.
The favourite was Peter Frey, head of ZDF's main studio in Berlin.
But ZDF did not confirm this - officially, not to anticipate the process.
The result of the vote was not known when going to press.
Because the majority of the Union in the administrative board had signaled already weeks before the vote that they would not confirm Brender in office.
Roland Koch, the prime minister of Hesse, had organised the opposition to the editor-in-chief.
With the argument that ZDF's news broadcasts had lost viewers under Brender, he rejected a further term in office of the highly regarded editor-in-chief.
Until shortly before the election, there were therefore protests in which the exercising of political influence on the ZDF was castigated.
Most recently, 35 civil rights campaigners had even joined the debate and rated the actions of Koch to be in breach of the Constitution.
To no avail.
Personal details
Peter Frey was born on 4 August 1957 in Bingen.
He studied political and educational sciences and Romance studies.
In 1983 Frey moved to the ZDF, initially to the heute-journal.
Subsequent activities: From 1988 to 1990 personal officer of the editor-in-chief; in 1991/92 correspondent in Washington; until 1998 head and presenter of the Morgenmagazin; until 2001 head of ZDF foreign affairs; then head of the ZDF head studio.
The Greens announced after the voting out of Brender, who was voted journalist of the year by the sector paper Medium Magazin only on Wednesday, to press constitutional charges.
Koch's opponent on the board of directors, the Rhineland-Palatine prime minister Kurt Beck, explained last week that the states should amend the ZDF treaty to the extend that staff suggestions of the director cannot be blocked by a politically motivated majority.
However, Beck too ruled out any removal of party politicians from the boards of directors of the ZDF.
Brender's expected successor, Peter Frey, had recommended himself to the board of directors with a clever move - by harshly criticising the committee immediately after it voted out Brender.
In party calculations, Frey is reckoned to be a left-leaning liberal anyway.
University courses to be cleared out
Partial success for students: After a year of educational strikes, the culture ministers of the states finally came around on Thursday: At a meeting of the Culture Minister and University Principals Conference, both parties agreed to improve the conditions of studying for bachelor and masters courses.
The students should, in the future, be in a position to master their studies.
In particular, they agreed to reduce the number of exams: Every module shall, as a rule, be completed with one single exam.
In addition, the students' workload shall be reviewed and "a realistic and acceptable extent" ensured.
Politicians and colleges also want to simplify the recognition of exams taken between the colleges inside and outside Germany.
The states undertake to organise more flexibly joint structural requirements for bachelor and masters courses.
State regulations deviating from this, shall not be imposed.
Less exams
Since the start of the student protests in June, culture ministers and university principals have been referring to the dictum of better studiability.
Now it is being filled with specific contents for the first time.
The so-called accreditation council has decided to, in part, dramatically reduce the number of exams: "Every module ends, as a rule, with an exam," states the 30-page paper, which is to newly govern the admission of courses in part.
With the "clear reduction of the examination load", explains accreditation council chairman Reinhold Grimm, "an undesirable development is to be stopped, which had a grave impact on studiability".
In addition, "studiability" is to be the core criterion for the organisation in the future.
Modules and contents "shall be strictly reviewed" as to whether "unnecessary constrictions on the students in their choice of
events" would be avoided.
The students are "entitled to be granted leeway allowing and promoting initiative".
The rules are to apply for the admission of new but also for the review of existing courses.
They need to be "reaccredited" every five years, which, however, means that it may take until 2015 until all courses have been reviewed.
Ten accreditation agencies throughout Germany oversee this, which report to the Accreditation Council set up by the states.
The culture ministers had "expressly" urged the states in October to influence the agencies in such a way that the number of subjects is not too large and the exams regime not too strict.
In some federal states, universities and colleges have already agreed on corresponding measures with the state ministries.
Rhineland-Palatine has promised additional funds for the further development of the Bologna process;so far, it is the only state to do so.
With this money, the colleges are, in particular, to set up tutor programmes and course consultations as well as strengthen exams and foreign offices.
The state and colleges plan to earmark 10 million euros for this.
In early 2010 the government wants to bring an amendment to the Universities Act before parliament.
According to it, only one exam should be necessary to complete a course model.
The course design is to become more flexible, while the recognition of past academic records at other universities is to become easier along with access to masters courses.
By the end of the coming year, all courses of the state are to be examined for their studiability.
The government and opposition had again argued over the study requirements in the state on Thursday.
On top of praise, there was also criticism for the decisions.
The federal board of the Young Socialist University Groups demanded the design of education policy should no longer take place "behind the closed doors" of ministers and university principals.
After the educational strike, at the latest, students should now also "have their say" as those affected.
The future academics received support from the president of the Conference of University Principals (HRK), Margret Wintermantel: "We need the experiences of the students," she said on Thursday at a meeting with the culture ministers, with whom the HRK was debating a joint reform paper.
The Education and Science Union (GEW) deemed the Bonn decisions to be not radical enough: It is demanding a legal claim, which would allow every graduate with a bachelor degree admission on a further masters course.
On the other hand, the states must ensure that for the current generation of bachelor students there are sufficient places on master courses with best-possible studying conditions, says GEW executive board member Andreas Keller.
The states must employ significantly more lecturers.
The culture ministers did, however, not issue a statement regarding free admission to masters courses.
He caused a major extra-literary stir last Tuesday during a conference in Munich, debating "German literature in Romania in the reflection and distortion of its Securitate files".
The recruitment attempts started gradually, first in 1971.
He "boxed him out" in all points which were dangerous for him at the time, said Markel.
He has a moral need to make this statement.
Those affected, one can assume, will have guessed and in some cases even known whose real name was behind the code names of Sorin, Voicu and, of course, Walter.
Contrary to the now very secure process of viewing Stasi files in Germany, the approach to the legacy of Securitate control is still very diffuse.
A systematic clarification has been undermined and hindered in recent years.
A National Council to Process Securitate Files (SNSAS), which is comparable to the Birthler Authority, was only set up in 1999, but the release of the files has been very slow.
A law regulating the administration of the files has only existed since 2005.
They is psychotic, she was, after all, questioned more than once.
The infamy of power believed it could openly speak in the guise of freedom of speech.
The Champions League - a side dish
The man with the striking bald head was still needing a chauffeur, as the town was still unknown to him.
Otherwise he could have driven himself - after all, no alcohol was involved and the 55-year-old was not drunk.
A nice evening, but tomorrow the work would continue.
Or only just get going.
In the words of the Swiss national, who had only just been employed three days before: "We may have reached the last sixteen," i.e. in the Champions League thanks to a 3:1 win over Unirea Urziceni from Romania, "but we mustn't be blinded by the success: We are in for a brutal fight against relegation."
The "far more important task" is scheduled for Sunday.
The Champions League performance will have to be repeated in the day-to-day job of the league.
Draw
The last sixteen of the Champions League (first leg 16/17 + 23/24 February/second leg 9/10 + 16/17 March) will be drawn in Nyon on 18 December.
The joy over the excellent start of the Babbel successor therefore remained mute.
Not only with the apparent saviour, who had given the unsettled Stuttgart professionals self-confidence, commitment and joy in playing in a short period of time.
"I addressed the players and told them that they must consider their strengths, and urged them to be more courageous," explained shrink Gross his so simple-sounding recipe for success, which no longer had any effect under therapist Babbel.
He set a certain magic alight, admitted Babbel fan Lehmann, "When now impulses are given in football, things happen which are considered to be impossible".
And Sami Khedira, who became the man of the match thanks to his dynamic approach having been injured for weeks, tried to describe the "phenomenon" with the proverbial "breath of fresh air" and the work approach of the new boss: "He is a man who takes drastic measures and demands discipline.
That is what we need in the current situation."
Under Babel this was clearly lacking.
VfB Stuttgart is still not out of the woods, warns sports director Horst Heldt
But VfB Stuttgart needs, more than anything, consistency.
Like Gross, players and managers were eager not to overestimate the win over the depleted and hopelessly overburdened defence of the Romanian guests.
They had also won in Glasgow before the horribly awakening three days later in Leverkusen in the 0:4, warned Khedira.
And sports director Horst Heldt pointed out that one aim of the season had been achieved, but that the other one was still a long way off.
We are not out of the woods yet.
The fact that Heldt was not in any mood to celebrate on his 40th birthday and even on the first home win for three months, had to do with the events of the weekend, which were revived in the form of a TV interview with goalkeeper Jens Lehmann, which was screened immediately before the match.
There are decisions which other people take and not Jens, was Heldt's response to Lehmann's harsh criticism.
He had accused the directors of a lack of leadership, who had decided to replace the manager under pressure from pubescent fans.
The fact that his day off after matches had been cancelled, was also rated by Lehmann as a sign of a lack of authority and resentment.
Lehmann's statements were "guided by pure egoism", replied Heldt and announced consequences for the keeper.
It is unlikely they will become friends for life.
But, after all, they agreed with everybody else that without the work done by the replaced team of coaches, the strong performance, both in terms of play and spirit, would not have been possible.
Babel and seine assistants had "a great share in the success", said Heldt and Lehmann unanimously - and the man with the plastic bag also agreed.
Worldcup heavyweight box match
Heated duel in Berne: Challenger Kevin Johnson kept provoking world champion Vitali Klitchko with words and gestures.
But after twelve hard rounds, the Ukrainian defended his heavyweight title according to the WBC.
The verdict of the judges was unanimous.
Hamburg - Vitali Klitchko remains heavyweight boxing world champion.
On Saturday night in Berne the 38-year-old champion (the WBC association version,) beat the American Kevin Johnson unanimously by points (120:108, 120:108, 119:109).
For Klitchko this was his third successful defence of his title since his comeback in October 2008.
Before, the Ukrainian had already twice been world champion of the WBO and WBC associations.
Unfortunately, the knock-out, which everybody had expected, did not materialise.
Klitchko extended his record to 39 wins in 41 professional matches, twice he had to give in due to injury.
Challenger Johnson saw his first defeat in 24 fights.
In front of some 17,000 spectators in the Berne Arena, the 2.02-metre tall Klitchko aimed to dictate the match predominantly with his left hitting hand.
But the eleven centimetres shorter Johnson, how had announced the end of the Klitchko era before the fight, kept evading the hits from the world champion, meaning that Klitchko was not able to apply a decisive blow with his dangerous right hand.
Overall, the passive Johnson did not do enough for a challenger and simply tried to survive the rounds.
Although he provoked Klitchko with words and gestures, his blows only rarely hit the world champion.
Nevertheless, he is only the second boxed since Timo Hoffmann in 2000 who fight the full twelve rounds against Klitchko.
The challenger had caused quite a stir in the Swiss capital before the fight.
He insulted Klitchko as "an ugly zombie", who "cannot do anything at all".
During weighing, the champion then allowed himself to be provoked to knock Johnson's sunglasses of his nose "to be able to see into his eyes."
Fourth victory after Klitchko's return
Klitchko came out on top in his fourth fight since his comeback on 11 October 2008.
After a sabbatical nearly four years, he beat the Nigerian Samuel Peter in Berlin and regained "his" WBC belt, which he had been forced to hand over before without a fight.
This year he then beat in the defence of his title the Cuban Juan Carlos Gomez from and Chris Arreola from the US in September.
I only took one blow in this fight, and am physically in very good shape, Klitchko said after the quick return to the ring.
His dream, however, remains the unification of all important titles in his family.
Brother Vladimir is world champion of the WBO and IBF associations.
But the WBA belt is worn by Britan David Haye after he dethroned the 2.13-metre tall Nikolay Valuev in November.
Haye had previously cancelled in the summer a fight planned to take place in September against Vitali Klitchko.
Apparently, his promotion company is now already planning a fight against Klitchko at London's Wembley stadium.
The Kunduz case
SPD and Left Party demanding a clarification from the Chancellor.
Hamburg/Berlin - After the recent revelations regarding the air raid of Kunduz, the opposition has accused defence minister Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg (CSU) of deliberate deception.
This is generally referred to as lying.
The order to kill was given in defiance of the rules of the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) for Afghanistan.
That is the substance of the report, which NATO had, which Mr. Guttenberg has read, said Trittin.
On Friday it was revealed that the attack was not only about destroying the abducted tankers, but also to specifically kill two Taleban leaders.
The US air strike ordered by the German Kunduz commander Colonel Klein, up to 142 people were killed of injured, according to the NATO inquiry report.
The Greens, SPD and Left Party Linke called on Chancellor Angela Merkel (CDU) on Saturday to address parliament immediately and to clarify what Guttenberg really knew about the event.
Government spokesman Ulrich Wilhelm rejected the criticism resolutely.
The Chancellor's Office did not take any influence on specific missions of the German army in Afghanistan, he said.
On Saturday, doubts over the presentation by the ministry of the background of the dismissal of Inspector General Wolfgang Schneiderhan and State Secretary Peter Wichert emerged.
According to information available to SPIEGEL, the two provided Guttenberg with correct and complete information on the background of the tanker trailer attack.
Officially, it was said that they had lied about the existence of the NATO reports and kept sensitive details from the minister.
From the entourage of the top official, however, it was said that the defence ministry had even been directed to several reports, including a two-page documents of the commanding colonel Klein and a report from the military police.
In the meantime, Wichert is supposed to have asked for clarification in a letter, reports the Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung.
He has not received a response, it is claimed.
The ministry did not comment on the accusations on Saturday and referred to the fact that this would be clarified by the inquiry committee of parliament, which would be set up next Wednesday.
Dream worlds
Some see images and hear voices when they are awake which others do not hear or see.
Not only in the mentally sick and during intoxication with drugs do the borders between imagination and reality become blurred.
As long as this happens in sleep, things are fine.
When we are in dark rooms with our eyes closed, we can surrender to the wildest imaginations and fantasies without restraint.
But anybody experiencing dream-like conditions or seeing and hearing things other people do not when they are awake, is regarded in contemporary Western society as a madman or drug addict, or strange at the very least.
But such images and voices are formed not only in the mentally sick or during drug intoxication.
This is down to our imagination: The same neural processes which allow us to design houses, draw paintings or write novels can make the borders between dream, madness and reality become blurred.
Conscious conditions which are warped like dreams can occur in the most different forms, in the best case we call them visions, in the worst case madness.
Even if their triggers and effects may differ, the visions of mystic Hildegard von Bingen, the drug experiences of New Age prophet Carlos Castaneda, shaman detachment from reality conditions, psychoses and hallucinations can be traced back to similar processes.
Hallucination or delusions occur when the balance of the neural transmitters of the brain - predominantly dopamine noradrenaline, serotonin and acetylcholine - derails and the interaction of different brain segments is dysfunctional.
Complex hallucinations and delusional thoughts often occur during schizophrenic psychoses.
Gravity no longer has any power over him
The connection between madness and dream has occupied philosophers and doctors since ancient times.
Aristotle understood hallucinations to be a form of dream while awake, Wilhelm Griesinger, a founder of modern psychiatry, detected in 1861 a "huge similarity of madness and dreamlike conditions", for Sigmund Freud dreams were even "a psychosis, with all puzzles, delusions and misperceptions of such".
It is autumn 2001 when Henning T. turns into a comic figure.
His body is two-dimensional and excessively gaudy.
Gravity no longer has any power over him, he floats at the ceiling of the room.
He feels a kick.
Behind him are winged devilish figures with red, distorted faces, snarling.
They hunt him, kick him with heavy, flaming boots, throw him against walls, he feels the pain all over his body.
Loud, evil voices emerge from the walls and radio.
He can no longer stand them, the voices that abuse and insult him.
Henning T. pulls two cables out of the stereo system, ties them to a knot and attaches it to a hook on the ceiling.
He climbs on a speaker and puts the noose around his neck.
He jumps.
The noose becomes loose.
Let that be a lesson to you, the voices scream in an eardrum-tearing choir, "go to the clinic and get treated!"
Today, Henning T. is 40 years old, he has had six acute psychoses, the last one is two years back, the first nearly 20 years ago.
It was caused by LSD.
His diagnosis is a schizoaffective-paranoid psychosis, he is also a manic-depressive, he takes drugs against depression, the mania and schizophrenia.
He has learned to live with his illness, he has been married for three years.
In psychosis I experienced the worst fear and deepest desperation, he says.
The illusions are a brutal reality
About 1 per cent of the population suffers at least once in their lifetime from schizophrenia; in psychiatric clinics, it is treated with a frequency only second to depression.
In an acute schizophrenic psychosis, people affected can no longer distinguish between internal and external world, they reach an overexcited condition which can result in hallucinations, megalomania, paranoia or persecution mania.
Particularly common is the hearing of voices - voices which command, comment or involve in dialogue.
Visual hallucinations are also not rare.
The affected person can no longer distinguish important things from unimportant things, the brain can no longer filter out disturbing signals, the conscious is flooded by impressions.
Like dreams, a psychosis also opens the floodgates on a flood of ideas and phantasies, which stem from the deeper levels of the conscious.
The perception of reality in a psychosis is subject-centred, says professor Thomas Fuchs, senior physician at the Clinic for General Psychiatry at the University Clinic of Heidelberg.
Schizophrenic patients are at the heart of the events, the meaning of everything is directed to him.
At the same time, he finds himself in a passive role, he is, like in a dream, overwhelmed by the events can cannot affect them actively.
Schizophrenic patients therefore often feel threatened, controlled and manipulated.
A reality comparison is often not available to them, the illusions are a brutal reality, waking up is not possible.
To experience a hallucination once in your life
Contrary to dreams, says Fuchs, "the sensual and spatial structure of reality, as perceived during a psychosis, remains intact as a rule".
The delusional thoughts and hallucinations are based in reality, the distortion of the events takes place within a framework of reality.
Precisely why our brain plays such tricks on us, is still puzzling to scientists.
Extraordinary conditions can cause any person to lose his sense of reality for a short period of time, says Fuchs.
But not everybody will develop a psychosis.
There seems to be a genetic tendency to schizophrenia, but studies of twins have shown that genes are not the sole factor.
Scientists assume that patients have minimal brain damage.
We think that the neuronal maturing of the brain is disturbed in an early stage of development, through a virus infection in the mother during pregnancy, for instance, explains Fuchs.
But it remains a mystery how disturbances to the neuronal system comes about which also do not become manifest for many years initially.
Environmental impacts also play a part - stress or traumatic experiences can trigger psychoses if the disposition is given.
Hallucinogen drugs can trigger psychoses, as they interfere with the transmitter system.
When our brain runs hot
Whether these illusions are perceived to be pleasant or unpleasant is often only a matter of perspective.
Kasten has been collecting reports for ten years on hallucinations and delusions; last year he assessed his results in a book titled The unreal World in our Head.
Hallucinations are a typical by-product of psychoses, but also of a remarkably large amount of other diseases.
These include, on top of mental illnesses such as borderline or depression, also often diseases such as migraine, epilepsy, multiple sclerosis or Alzheimer's disease and traumatic brain injuries.
Surprisingly, even the brain of healthy people hallucinates under certain conditions.
Hallucinations, says Kasten, consist of memory fragments, which are often held back.
They occur when areas of the brain, where sensory perceptions are processed, are overactive or not sufficiently restrained; when our brain runs hot and also when there is a lack of stimulation.
Drugs can trigger this condition as much as brain damage or a psychosis.
But sensory deprivation, stress, lovesickness or other mental exceptional conditions too.
In more recent studies, up to one third of respondents claimed to have experienced a hallucination at least once in their lives.
In summer 2005 Sarah K. is 16 years old, she is living in a small town in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern and goes to the local secondary school.
Indeed, a perfectly normal girl.
It it were not for the images and voices.
During breaks, it can happen that a lanky boy with long dark hair approaches her.
When she answers him, her schoolmates look at her in surprise - nobody else sees or hears this boy.
They think the girls is a nutty daydreamer, but Sarah K. is not dreaming, she knows that much.
She is awake, she sees and hears this boy, just like she sees and hears the girl at the desk next to her.
She can even feel his presence, at least for some moments.
A pleasant feeling it is, she likes the boy.
Am I mad? she sometimes asks.
But she knows that this boy and the other illusions are not real and disappear again.
At night the appearances are usually frightening
The illusions are often a strain.
When she is sitting in the classroom, she sometimes cannot follow because the teacher is to her eyes and ears just introducing a new schoolmate, while she is explaining mathematical equations on the blackboard for everyone else.
At night the appearances are usually frightening.
When she is waiting for sleep in her dark room, which comes far too rarely and late, she often cannot distinguish whether she is awake or already dreaming, whether the images she sees, the grimaces or the girl with the bleeding cuts on her arms and legs is standing in front of her open or closed eyes.
Let me be, she screams at the figures.
She does not tell her parents or friends anything about this, they would think she was mad.
Autumn 2009. Sarah K. is 20 years old now.
She passed her A levels last year and is now living with her boyfriend.
A year ago the hallucinations stopped.
Since she contacted psychologist Kasten via the internet, she knows exactly that she is not mad.
Madness is also work of art born out of desperation
If someone is socially isolated or suffers from sensory deprivation, he will very probably suffer from hallucinations after some time, says Kasten.
I assume that the brain is not busy enough and creates its own entertainment.
Sarah K., a single child, was afraid of other children when she was small; she often played alone.
Her hallucinations started when she learned at the age of 13 that the man she called dad since she could think was not her natural father.
As during visual and acoustic hallucinations those areas of the brain become active which also process real impressions and sounds, it is often difficult for patients like Sarah K. to distinguish between illusions and reality. "Every experience," says Kasten, "takes place in the brain, reality is reproduced there.
Hallucinations are also images, which the brain creates, this is why they seem so real."
Illusions at night are also classified by Kasten as a form of hallucination.
The hallucinations of the healthy are not fundamentally different from those during an acute psychosis.
Contrary to schizophrene patients, mentally healthy people are able to identify illusions as unreal.
Kasten therefore advises his patients to appreciate hallucinations as a special ability.
Border between dream and hallucination
A psychosis is a severe, painful illness, but it also brings positive aspects, creativity - madness is also a work of art born out of desperation.
Schmidt-Degenhard has researched the so-called oneiroid experience, a particular form of conscious conditions which are warped like dreams.
Oneiroids are highly complex, detailed quasi dreams, which the person experiencing them believes are real and which he later cannot distinguish from being awake.
The oneiroid condition occurs in trauma- or sickness-related extreme situations, for instance in polyradiculitis patients, who experience a motor paralysis in full consciousness.
If a person is threatened by self- or world loss, for instance due to persistent, complete loss of mobility, he replaces the life-threatening real situation with an own, imaginary world, which is uncoupled from reality, says Schmidt-Degenhard.
A kind of border between dream and hallucination
As the mastering of a situation is not possible in reality, a change of world takes place, but the real situation is not updated in the imagination.
An intense form of creating and applying meaning in an unbearable situation, which allows us people our own ability to design and not go under in the emptiness of a loss of consciousness.
Everything is real, even later in the memory
The Zurich-based art historian Peter Cornelius Claussen also describes his oneiroid experiences in his book A Change of Heart as the sole's attempt to safe itself.
He is 49 years old when his consciousness takes off on journeys for days after heart valve surgery with subsequent heart transplantation while his body is damned to immobility in the intensive care unit.
Claussen delves into a world of his creation, visits foreign places and times: He experiences himself as a bedridden, old man, on board a train sanatorium, a robot watching over his health.
He lives in the early Middle Ages amongst noblemen who make intoxicants from blood.
He is abducted by a Greek man on his motorbike to his homeland, surfs with his hospital bed in the spring snow of the Alps and meets a Korean member of the mafia.
He is fully taken up with the imaginary events; everything is real, even later in his memory.
These inner trips, Claussen believes, are fundamentally different from every dream.
Dream is a different condition, he describes his experience.
Contrary to that, the memories from mental trips are overtly clear to me even after years and in minute detail.
Even clearer and more intense that real events.
The intensity of this experience breaks the horizon of our day-to-day experiences, says psychiatrist Schmidt-Degenhard.
Ultimately, oneiroids, psychoses, hallucinations and drug intoxication show how fragile our images of the external reality are, even when awake.
Every change to the conscious, summarises psychologist Kasten, "can result in a warping of what we call reality".
An experience which can indeed be enriching.
The snow can come
Burda
Children set to take over the publishing house at the age of 27
Kallen, the new head of the publishing house, is an interim solution: In the long term, Hubert Burda wants his company to be taken over by his two children, he has told the SPIEGEL magazine.
The holding is to remain to 100% in the family.
Hamburg - The publisher Hubert Burda sees the long-term future of his company in his children's hands.
Both children will inherit at the age of 27 and are strongly intent on joining the company, the 69-year-old has told the SPIEGEL magazine.
The details have already been organised as a precaution.
The question whether they will be active in the company will only arise later.
Also the question whether they are able to do so.
One cannot put one's children in charge of 7,500 employees if they are not capable of this.
That will kill the children, and the company with them.
On Thursday, Burda announced that he would be resigning from his post as chairman as of January and appointed Paul-Bernhard Kallen as his successor.
52-year-old Kallen has been a member of the board at Burda since 1999.
He was initially responsible for technology.
For the first time, a person who is not a family member is thus at the helm of the publishing house.
Burda's children are 19 and 17; his son Felix, who would be 42 today, died a couple of years ago.
The appointment of Kallen is designed to "bridge 10, 15 years", says Burda.
The holding is to remain to 100 per cent in family ownership, said Burda.
In light of the cases of Schickedanz and Schaeffler, Burda stated that family-owned companies are not safe from going under either: "That always affected families who were infected with a capital addiction, who speculated wrongly and through they could advance to become a really big player.
That never was my strategy.
He never had "dreams of world power", says Burda.
I do not see myself as a political preceptor of the country, as Springer was, and I do not want to participate in the world league with Time magazine, these companies have become too big.
Comprehensive Beauty
Everything you could want in terms of beauty and comfort -at your fingertips.
There is also a food section, which features a teashop with more than 130 different kinds of tea.
A total of 250 m2 are distributed amongst 12 rooms to carry out the latest and most innovative facial, body and hydrotherapy treatments.
Such as, for example, cavitation to combat cellulite, or vibration platforms.
The gym has these machines, in addition to virtual trainers which guide the steps of the clients, offering them a totally personalized treatment.
Everything starts by entering your personal key on the touch screen situated in front of the machine.
Then, various videos show us how to properly perform our workout plan.
Its director guarantees that 15 minutes (including warm up and stretching) are enough to exercise all of the muscles in the body.
And, if after our workout we want to drop by the hairdresser's,Luis & Tachi provides a salon where they offer personal hair services to restore its brilliance and nutrition.
Innovation and exclusivity seem to be the premise of this urban spa, which will be open every day of the year, from 10:00 in the morning to 10:00 at night.
Varied necklines
Christmas is approaching, and it never hurts to revisit the looks of the stars to suit our holiday wardrobe.
The neckline, very important for enhancing the silhoutte, is one of the facts we should take into account.
Here are a few suggestions.
The singer Fergie chose an exaggerated and very complicated neck line.This is not recommended.
Endesa and Barcelona with the electric car
The electric company Endesa, together with Barcelona City Council, has created 'Office LIVE.'
This is a project to develop and promote the electric car in the Catalan capital.
Office LIVE' (Logistics for the Implementation of the Electric Vehicle) will define and coordinate the roadmap for the implementation of the electric car in the city, and will define the conditions for mobility, management, coordination, present subsidies, etc.
Moreover, MOVELE will develop the project, promote the electric car, review public opinion and work from the sectors involved.
In short, it hopes to promote what will be the transportation of the future.
3 'electric cities'
But Barcelona is not the only city that is going to be involved in the implementation of the electric car in Spain.
Madrid and Seville are joining the project.
They are the three cities chosen by the Government to promote the implementation of the electric vehicle within the MOVELE plan.
The electric company Endesa has already signed a framework agreement with the Generalitat of Catalonia.
With that, it hopes to promote the activities of the Research and Technological Development in the Autonomous Community of Catalonia.
These include activities linked to energy and, in particular, energy efficiency.
It is not the only initiative Endesa is involved in regarding the promotion of the electric vehicle.
The company participates in standardization groups at the European level and has a series of active complementary projects, such as G4V, ELVIRE and CENIT VERDE.
Zapatero sees 'a horizon of peace' for the automotive sector.
The Prime Minister, Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, catches a glimpse of 'a horizon of peace' for the Spanish automotive industry, which, he pointed out, is the principal export sector in the country.
In the Prime Minister's presentation of the Economic Report for 2009, Zapatero reviewed the measures the government had launched throughout the fiscal year to support the automotive sector.
"Without the Automotive Competitiveness Plan, today we would have a panorama of neglect and the closure of some of our major production plants," the Prime Minister explained.
"Through this plan and the arrangement of the brands to continue in this highly competitive sector in Spain, we can have a horizon of peace for the future of this industry, which is our principal export sector," he added.
In this regard, he recalled that theCompetitiveness Plan, included in the Comprehensive Plan of the Automobile Industry (PIA), allocated 800 million to projects of 19 manufacturers and 137 auxiliary companies, which mobilized an investment of more than 3 billion euros.
The head of the Executive Branch explained that this investment was committed as much to the development of new models as it was to upgrading already existing products and processes.
Zapatero also stressed the government's measures to support the demand, alluding to Plan 2000E, implemented in collaboration with the Autonomous Communities and automotive brand.
According to the Prime Minister, this plan has reduced emissions by 6% in new vehicles sold on the Spanish market and has brought about a "sharp increase" in enrollment, which rose by "40 percent" in November..
20,000 square meters of classic vehicles.
The first year of the International Classic Car Showroom will be celebrated in Madrid, a meeting place for professionals and amateurs of the motor world.
This initiative will take place from the 5th to the 7th of February, 2010 in the Glass Pavilion of the Casa de Campo in Madrid.
This is a 20,000 square meter exhibition area, and more than 200 national and international exhibitors will be there.
Not only will you find classic motorcycles and cars at ClassicAuto Madrid, there will also be all kinds of products related to the motor world.
So you will find the exhibitors at the pavilion displaying accessories, parts, components, textile accessories, complements, publications, miniatures, etc.
Hundreds of items related to the world of classic motors will delight collectors and the curious.
Outdoor tests of skill.
The business of this Showroom will also feature parallel activities: rallies, sports exhibitions, tests of skill, presentations and competitions.
Tests of skill in classic cars and motorcycles will also take place on an authorized track outside the exhibition site.
Mazda3 i-Stop: Sustainable sportsmanship
Mazda wants to show that sportsmanship is not incompatible with the environment.
Therefore, Mazda3 has just added an engine stopping and starting system - dubbed as the i-Stop -, a mechanism which is, for the moment at least, only available with the 150-horse power 2.0 petrol engine.
This second generation of the Mazda3 stands out for its overall high ratings.
All of these aspects are outstanding in the new Mazda3.
Starting with the driver's seat, we see that the front seats offer excellent ergonomics and support.
The feel of the steering wheel is also exquisite.
Moving on to thecombination of the dashboard and console, we see how Mazda has continued the Japanese tendency to create a futuristic interior design with a great deal of buttons, knobs and striking red and blue colors.
This style reminds us, in part, of the Honda Civic.
So, we can say that the Mazda3 and the Civic, both Japanese, contrast with the sobriety of the German products, more specifically, the Volkswagen Golf, which everyone wants to beat.
Continuing with the interior, this Japanese compact is easily roomy enough for four adults to travel in great comfort.
All of this comes with a spacious trunk and standard dimensions.
The engine's automatic stopping and starting system, at least for now, is only available with the two-liter, 150-horse-power, manual, six-gear, petrol engine.
This engine is a real delight.What makes it outstanding are its subtlety, reduced noise levels, features and fuel consumption.
And even though the diesel versions of the Madzda3 will be in higher demand, those who don't do too much mileage a year should not dismiss this i-Stop petrol engine system, both for its elevated driving comfort and its fuel consumption.
As regards the level of the equipment, the version chosen for the test is called the Sportive, meaningit incorporates a high number of standard elements.
The standard equipment is excellent, especially the lane changing assistant (RVM) which eliminates the blind spot, the traction and stability controls, the speed control, the interior photosensitive mirror, the large-screen onboard computer, the parking sensors, independent climate control, rain and lights sensor, Bluetooth and Bluetooth audio, and 17" alloy wheels.
Additionally, with less equipment, this version comes with the Premium Pack, which, for 1,500 euros, also features: bi-xenon adaptive headlights and a BOSE sound system with CD changer, among other things.
Conclusion
The Mazda3 2.0 i-Stop is one of the best compacts in its category.
It is particularly outstanding in terms of the quality of the materials used, its performance, and the high standard of its equipment.
Additionally, those who do less yearly mileage can opt for this version of the i-Stop, associated only with the 150-horse-power 2.0 engine.
The only drawback of this model is its high price, which ranges from 21,770 euros for the Luxury pack to 23,270 euros for the Sportive version, tested here.
In exchange for the high price, the Mazda3 will offer a large daily dose of satisfaction.
Deluxe 'Premiere'
L. A. covers the red carpet of sensuality by the hand of Penelope Cruz, Nicole Kidman and Fergie.
The stars were more dazzling than ever, wrapped in designer dresses, as elegant as they were sexy, at the premiere of 'Nine'.(Photos: Gtresonline)
Our own 'Pe', as sophisticated as ever, decided on a dark 'lady.'
The promise of FonPeek
Peek is extremely limited, a device that's only used for checking email, without no feature for viewing certain kinds of attachments or surfing the web.
It enjoyed its 5 minutes of fame in the U.S. when Times Magazine named it one of the products of the year.
Seeing it on the street is more difficult, to be honest, but the idea can be interesting, especially for children.
Unlike smartphones, the Peek is very cheap and has a very low monthly fee, less than half, for example, of the iPhone's data plan.
Given its success, the company has released two new devices: one exclusively for Twitter, the other with a free data service for life in exchange for paying six times more for the Peek.
FonPeek, presented at the La Web event yesterday, is the European version of the invention and its third incarnation.
It is just as limited as its U.S. counterpart, but comes with a surprise.
The monthly service price, around 12 euros a month, includes roaming throughout Europe.
Those who travel with a smartphone already know what it's like to have to give up data when they cross the border or desperately search for a cafe with WiFi (or a Fon connection)to check their mail.
The idea of fixed-price roaming is incredibly attractive and long awaited.
Yes, some operators have special arrangements and travel plans, but in my experience it takes a doctorate in physics to understand them and good glasses to read the fine print.
The repeated twisting of the European Commission's arm to get affordable roaming rates across Europe has had almost no noticeable effect.
There's a fear of using data outside one's home country, and rightly so.
For a gadget like the FonPeek (it no longer seems strange that it is called Fon since it lacks WiFi) to get this kind of fee, it means that the operators are starting the think differently and study different means of recouping the cost of their data networks.
The Kindle is another good example, including a book downloading feature and other internet queries.
No contracts, no bother.
It's a connected device and is paid for when it's purchased, not month by month.
And that is what I hope to see one day with FonPeek, a call option with life-time access, which the Peek already has in the U.S.
Not because I'm going to buy it.
I check my mail on my phone, thank you.
I hope so because I think it's an unfair model for the consumer.
It would be interesting to see a computer with the same system.
Michelle's color fetish
Yellow is, without a doubt, the U.S. First Lady's favorite color.
She already attended Barak Obama's inauguration as U.S. president in a yellow dress and coat; she chose the same to accompany him to what was undoubtedly the second most important moment of his life: the Nobel Peace Prize ceremony in Oslo.
Michelle Obama wore a very similar dress on both occasions:apart from being a similar yellow-green color with bright highlights-, both times the outfit consisted of three pieces, a dress, jacket and coat of the same material, and was adorned with a large embroidery or necklace.
So much so that, at first glance, it seemed the first lady of the U.S. has been following the Princess of Asturias' lead and has opted to repeat her wardrobe.
But the material the two suits are made of make them very different.
If the inauguration was about thick lace, in Oslo it was patterned velvet.
The accessories have also varied: green medium-heeled shoes the other time, and now a similar design, but in gold.
And equally different is the hair style: on this occasion, hair tied back; previously she wore her hair down.
75% of working mothers have had work problems during maternity.
Discrimination at work has increased in recent years, especially for women of younger generations who want to be mothers.
This has been revealed by a study entitled 'Fertility and work history of women in Spain', developed by the CSIC in collaboration with the Women's Institute.
The survey of 9,737 women from 15 to 75 years old leaves no doubt about it: 75% of working mothers have seen their opportunities in the workplace limited due to maternity.
The study notes that there are many differences in when couples start cohabiting, in the number of children, depending on whether they work or not and the type of work they do.
Those that don't have an activity outside of the home, work part time, or don't have a stable job start living with their partner sooner, expect their first child, and have more children.
By contrast, women with a stable job, especially in the public sector, put off cohabitation and motherhood and have fewer offspring.
"Women between 35 and 49 years old with steady work have the first child, on average, 3.7 years after starting to live together,a figure which increases to 4.1; women with steady jobs need more time to achieve their lifelong goals, which has led them to postpone getting married and having children.
Additionally, the type of job held has a great influence over maternity, but less over the mating schedule," explains CSIC researcher, Margarita Delgado.
Level of education is another factor whichdifferentiates the age of women marrying and having their first child.
According to the survey, the higher the level of education, the older the age at which they get married and have their first child.
There was also a difference among women from the same generation.
For example, in a group of 35- to 49-year-olds, those who had elementary and those who and higher education had become mothers for the first time, on average, at 25.1 and 32.1 respectively.
Their level of education provides yet another division among women.
While those who have an elementary education marry and have their first child before finding a stable job, those who have secondary or higher levels of education reverse the sequence and give priority to securing a stable job as a precondition to marriage and having a child," Delgado specifies.
Diane Kruger is also worth it
Starting next year, the German actress will become the image of the brand's different products, singing the universal slogan 'Because I'm worth it.'
Before her, the last ones to enter such an elite club were the actresses Evangeline Lilly ('Lost') and Freida Pinto ('Slumdog Millionaire').
For the men's line, the cosmetic brand also includes deluxe ambassadors: Patrick Dempsey ('Grey's Anatomy') and Matthew Fox (Evangeline's co-star on 'Lost').
The British Fashion Awards
The British have a lot to say in the world of fashion.
Top representatives - designers and models, past and present -gathered at the annual awards presentation, which took place in London at the Royal Court of Justice.
Nobody missed the date.
The former model Jerry Hall'sdaughter, Georgia May Jagger, was chosen as Model of the Year.
Poker by Manuel Vicent
In 'Four Aces' (Alfaguara, illustrations by Fernando Vicente) Manuel Vicent gives us thirty profiles of writers who have passed through their literary life (and, in some cases, the other one too).
He does not do it in predictable or terrible ways (biographical sketch, life and work),rather by looking for something that sparked the creation of the character.
The trip has its excitements, and Vincent us spares no scares or illuminations.
In addition to being an exquisite pleasure, the book is a touching invitation to be read and reread.
Here are some snippets.
On Albert Camus: "In his pages I discovered that the Mediterranean wasn't a sea, rather a spiritual instinct, almost physical, the same one I felt without giving it a name: the pleasure against the ill-fated, morality without guilt, and innocence without any god."
On Samuel Beckett: "Nihilistic, allegorical Christian, he wrote what was in his blood, not in his intellect, between impotence and ignorance, with a dazzling poetic humor, meaningless, like the blade of the knife that was about to kill him."
On Graham Greene: "Our man was abducted by this woman with a passion that lasted for thirteen years, in which flesh combined the excitement of adultery with the pleasure of remorse, a spiritual privilege which consisted of reaching heaven through the road of perdition."
On James Joyce: "'Ulysses' was published in Paris in 1922 by Sylvia Beach.This is one of the eight-thousand-meter peaks of world literature which must be scaled by the north face, which the best mountain climbers hurl themselves off time and time again."
On William Faulkner: "He was a weird guy."
Of himself, he sometimes said that he was the heir to a landowner in the county, and other times that he was the son of a black woman and a crocodile.
"They were both dreams of grandeur."
On Louis-Ferdinand Celine: "This writer took the deranged scream cried from a bridge by that character from Munich in order to carry his eco, under his literary form, into the depths of the night of the 20th century, and made it a journey, hiding from himself and calling on the past with a violent discourse to the worms."
On Dorothy Parker: "One day, she kneeled and prayed: ' Dear God, I beg you to make me stop writing like a woman'."
On Joseph Conrad: "On his tomb were engraved these verses from Spencer: 'Sleep after toil,/port after stormy seas,/ease after war,/ death after life does greatly please.'"
On Virginia Wolf: "She also carried her depressions in her luggage.
The husband accepted it as normal when she told him that Edward VII spied on her from the azaleas and that the birds sang in Greek.
There has never been a man so patient and in love with a neurotic woman whose literary talent came before her madness."
On Pio Baroja: "What did Martin-Santos do but try to inoculate Joyce in Baroja?
What did Benet try but to pass Baroja through the weapons of Faulkner?
What did Cela do but abduct the glory of that man so that it would serve his own pedestal?
Cowardly Aggression
Last week, my 70-year-old mother was walking through our neighborhood in the town of Fuenlabrada when a group of kids between 15 and 18 years old passed alongside her and our dog, a mixed-breed, rescued from the pound and weighing no more than six kilos, and, without saying a word, kicked the dog twice, leaving the dog badly injured.
Our indignation knew no bounds because we don't see the fun in gratuitous aggression towards a small and defenseless animal, which by the way, was on a leash.
It must be added that it distressed the woman who was calmly taking a walk and who, when she reprimanded those individuals, came to fear for her safety, because a lunatic who attacks an animal is capable of doing the same to a woman, a child, an elderly person, and, certainly, to anyone weaker than himself.
The incident took place on aTuesday at five o'clock in the afternoon in what is usually a quiet neighborhood.
The dog was crying all day.
By the way, we filed a complaint at a nearby police station which we doubt means much, notto stir up trouble, just to clarify that the cowardly murderers were Spanish.
The outrage has led us to denounce this fact.
We don't understand what is happening when young people consider it fun to gratuitously mistreat a defenseless animal which gives us love, companionship and friendship.
We don't know if there is any politeness and respect for animals and people left.
Michelin and Fesvial united on the use of helmets
The tire manufacturer Michelin, in collaboration with the Spanish Foundation for Road Safety (Fesvial), has launched a campaign to promote the use of helmets, especially among younger motorists, both organizations reported today.
This initiative aims to raise awareness of the importance of wearing a helmet, because it is the only means of protection capable of preventing head injuries and even death in the event of an accident while riding a motorcycle.
Michelin indicated that this campaign is part of their commitment to road safety which "goes beyond designing and manufacturing safer products every day," and added that it also contributes towards this goal by means of other educational and informative measures.
This new campaign promoting helmet use in motorcycles, under the motto 'To be or not to be,' will initially distribute posters to more than 500 motorcycle shops to spread the message as widely as possible.
Finally, Michelin stressed that road safety "is a constant concern" for the company, as being a manufacturer of tires for two-wheeled vehicles, one of its main goals is to develop ever safer products.
Sales of light commercial vehicles on the increase
Almost two years later, the light commercial vehicle market begins to see the light at the end of the tunnel.
The 9,425 vehicles registered in November in Spain represent a rise of 12.6% from 2008, and, more importantly, indicates the first increase after 22 consecutive months of decline, according to figures from the manufacturers association(ANFAC) and the vendors association (GANVAM).
However, it's not time to start celebrating since the reference the comparison was made to -November 2008- was particularly bad, with a 60% decrease from the previous year.
The outcome is that, regardless of last month's upturn, the total number of registrations during those 11 months is 40% below last year's.
Since January, 95,853 units of all the vehicle classes which make up the hotchpotch of light commercial vehicles were sold: derived vans, pick ups, vans, light vans and light-chassis trucks.
At the same time, the storm clouds affecting demand have not completely cleared, so even though they are also purchased by individuals, most purchases are made by small and medium-sized enterprises, almost all of which pay through external funding.
As a result of the restrictions caused by closed tap bank loans, it is necessary to add other factors like increasing unemployment and the persistent economic decline.
In light of this, unlike cars, the aid of the 2000Epurchase has done little.
Aside from individuals, provisions are made for the self-employed and SMEs that are going to purchase a light commercial vehicle of up to 3.5 tons with a CO2 emission level not exceeding 160 grams per kilometer, but the number of transactions has been insignificant.
Just yesterday, the need for the Administration to devote special attention to these vehicles, and also to commercial verhicles (trucks and buses), was brought to mind by GANVAM.
The sellers' association predicts that 2010 will be similar to the year coming to a close, which estimates a 19% drop in sales (passenger cars and 4x4s).
Support for emergency braking is already obligatory
Support systems to emergency brakes will have to be a mandatory feature in European cars, just as it happened with anti-lock breaks (ABS) and will happen with stability control (ESP)
In fact, they are already in all newly registered passenger cars and light commercial vehicles, while the rest have a grace period until the end of February 2011.
The measure, imposed by the European Union, aims to increase pedestrian safety; however, how they work can also help prevent many rear-end collisions.
What the emergency brake assistant does is increase the pressure on the brakes in the event of an emergency, which the system detects through the driver's pressure on the pedal.
But this doesn't always maintain that pressure through to the end.
According to a study conducted by the car components manufacturer, Bosch, a third of drivers involved in an accident had not stepped on the brake before a collision and half of them didn't apply the full force.
Up to 1,100 accidents
The intervention of the aid, however, calls for the full braking system, reducing the distance the car needs to stop.
According to an EU study, if all cars were equipped with this feature, 1,100 fatal accidents involving pedestrians could be avoided a year.
The reduction will be even bigger -it estimates that one in four accidents injuring people would be avoided - when the so-called smart emergency braking systems become popular.
In this case, the vehicle is equipped with a system which (via radar or a camera) detects obstacles and warns the driver, in addition to lightly applying the brakes.
If the driver reacts, he helps it by increasing the pressure on the pedal if it is necessary.
If he does not react, and even though the collision is unavoidable, the device exerts the maximum force to the brakes to minimize damage.
General Motors delays Opel plan until January
While workers at the Opel plant in Figueruelas (Zaragoza) have already been informed by Nick Reilly, the new president of General Motors (GM) Europe, that the production of the new Meriva will begin in the first week of April -probably the 8th- as reported by Javier Ortega, the U.S. manufacturer is cautioning that more time is needed to conclude the recovery plan for Opel.
Nick Reilly, the new president of GM Europe, wants each of the points of the new plan to have the prior approval of the affected party.
And this may make the final document, which will be submitted first to the workers and then to the governments of the countries where there are factories, be delayed until the beginning of 2010.
On the other hand, GM is making sure that a decision regarding the sale of Saab should be made in the next few days.
It is not strange that the Swedish government has increased the pressure on the U.S. manufacturer to make a decision as soon as possible.
GM admits to having had contact with some potential new buyers.
One of them could be Geely, which aims to acquire Volvo, but the option of the Dutch sports car manufacturer Skyper, which is funded by the Russian group Converg, is gaining momentum.
In the event that none of them come to an agreement, GM would be able to sell some Saab assets to the Chinese Baic.
The decision to close Saab at the end of the year if it is not sold still stands.
Driving the Porsche Boxster Spyder
To develop their latest and most precious gem, the Porsche engineers took the Boxster S as a base and succeeded in trimming it by no less than 80 kilos,making the total weight a mere 1,275 kilos.
This led them to, first, cutting out the automatic roof, which has been substituted by a manually-operated canvas one, saving 21 kilos; using aluminum doors, like those on the GT3, 'dropping' another 15, removing the climate control, 13; reducing the gas tank from 64 to 54 liters, earning 7 more kilos ; mounting sporty bucket seats, another 12, and with the 19-inch lightweight wheels, five.
Finally, foregoing the CDR-30 sound system brought it down another 6 kilograms, and changing the door handles to fabric ones cut the remaining kilo.
Even though it is also available with the PDK dual-clutch shift, the test was conducted on a unit with the six-speed manual transmission, mainly on the back roads of California and along stretches of really windy mountain roads.
Its performance can only be described as flawless.
The reduction in weight does not imply that the car doesn't grip the asphalt.
Rather the complete opposite: it has been some time since we tested a model so small and light, which, in turn, transmitted so much confidence when cornering, even at high speeds.
It is a small athlete, able to warm up its muscles in a low gear for as long as we need, until ordered to sprint, to brake, to recover and go back to exploiting its engine...
Just what we asked for. Thanks to its steering, as communicative as it is precise, what we tell it with our hands on the wheel is what the car will do.
And it will do it with surgical precision.
Optional engine noise
The sound of its V6 boxer with 320 horse power (10 more than the Boxster S) is well made and can be enhancedwith the 'sport' option and through a system that modifies the roar of the engine, which debuted earlier in the Panamera.
The acceleration is brutal, either from a standstill or recovering.
The suspension is firm but not harsh or uncomfortable.
The asphalt of the highways we crossed with the Boxster Spyder was fairly beaten up, but the car handled the potholes well.
The electronic aids hardly showed up on the course; that is because, well into the morning, we found early morning ice and gravel on some curves.
In short, it is an ultra lightweight car, one of the most fun to drive on the market, andis a bit more than just a simple modification of the Boxster S.
The car will go on sale in February 2010, priced at 70,931 euros.
'Bag Girl'
Close to Karl Lagerfeld, the image of the Coco Cocoon line and occasional 'starlet' of the catwalk,the singer lavishes her bad-girl image with as much contempt as she has Chanel bags.
More than a 'Bad Girl' or 'It Girl', she is a'Bag Girl'.
Baskonia gives away a victory in Israel
Caja Laboral achieved a stunning 82-91 victory on their visit to the Maccabee Electra court despite Dusko Ivanovic's team's heavy losses, and after the great performance by Mizra Teltovic, who was the best on his team with eight three-pointers scored (29 points), they now at the top of their group.
The Vitorian team knew to make up for the significant absences of Herrmann, Oleson, Huertas and Micov with a big dose of involvement and team work, even though it had to hold out until the end to take the victory.
Additionally, their huge success from the sidelines, with 16 three pointers scored, had a lot to do with the final triumph.
The game started out in favor of the Azulgranas, who put themselves ahead on the scoreboard from the start.
As Vitora's first four baskets were from the perimeter, the speculation was already that they had jumped into the Israeli net with hot wrists.
English and Teletovic were the main scorers of the 18-20 at the end of the first period.
The second quarter was more of the same, but the Alavan team opted for the inside game of Barac and the work of Eliyahu, who was greeted with whistles and applause at his return home, to continue increasing their lead by half-time (34-43).
Teletovic had already begun to stand out as the best on his team with 13 points, even though Splitter's "six fewer" points already signaled that it wasn't going to be the best night for the Brazilian.
But the game, despite being headed for half time, was not more decidedand the Maccabees tried to remind the Vitorians that not just anybody wins on their court, and with the 'hand of Elias' putting the pressure on, they managed to get involved in the game.
Eidson and Pnini played a decisive role in the "yellows'" return to the light.
More disadvantages
Ivanovic's players, injured but far from dead, needed to run a couple of plays correctly before they could breathe, and that's when the machine gun Marza Teletovic arrived, with three almost consecutive three-pointers and the help of English and Ribas, he brought the scoreboard back to a reassuring lead (54-67), which the home team managed to narrow down at the end of the third quarter (57-67).
The Alavas worked themselves to the bone in the last period, and English and San Emeterio (65-75) had already made it clear that they were not going to let anyone take away what they had earned during the first thirty minutes.
However, Pnini and Eidson, the best on their team, did not give up and tried to keep their team alive from the three-point line (70-77).
In spite of this, and with Splitter fouling out, Ivonic's team didn't rush, defended well, and, even though the Israelis came close at the last minute, the game ws already won and victory escaped Tel Aviv for the first time in the season.
Injuries impede Unicaja's fight
Unicaja lost miserably in Greece against the Olympiacos and gave them the lead in Group B of the Euroleague in a game marked by the loss of the cajistas, especially in the inside game (Freeland, Lima and Archibald) which facilitated the Greek victory.
The Malaga team was not cowed by the atmosphere in the Peace and Friendship Stadium, nor by the excellence of its rival, maybe the most powerful in Europe and with a big budget.
The playing exhibited in the first quarter allowed the Andalusians to take it easy.An aggressive defense and three consecutive three-pointers, two from the point guard Omar Cook, and one from Guillem Gubio, baffled the home team 12-18, minute 9.
The Olympiacos were obviously surprised by Unicaja's intensity, even though the home team's arsenal in the inside game with Bourousis, Vujcic and Schortsanitis brought them back to 22-20, in the 13th minute, at which point an attempted fight between the two U.S. point guards, Beverley and Williams, resulted in the disqualification of both players.
The Greek team started showing their superiority inside both zones, where the loss of English center Joel Freeland to injury and three personal fouls by Carlos Jimenez hampered the cajistas.
Between them the inside players and the Lithuanian forward, Linas Leizas, with their three-pointers, increased the lead to 44-32 in the 19th minute.
An impossible comeback
The third period was very offensive for the Olympiacos, who, despite 19 losses, proved superior and began to even out the difference in the game in Malaga, making it 66-48 in the 27th minute, which shook the group leader.
Unicaja tried to overcome their absences and the latest withdrawal of the Scottish center, Robert Archibald, who was injured during the game.
Despite all the problems, because of Cook's control and three-pointers, and Lewis' assists, Unicaja had some hope left with the score at 66-57 in the 31st minute.
But it was practically impossible because the Olympiacos, when pressed and given their superiority, seemed unstoppable once centimeters inside the zone.
The Croatian center, Nikola Vujcic, managed to bring back the basket average to 81-62 in the 37th minute and Unicaja gave up, handing the top-seed over to the Olympiacos.
How much should you charge for your Facebook profile?
Facebook users can know the salary they deserve according to their profile, thanks to a new application Trovit, the search engine with the largest number of real-estate, employment and car classifieds in Spain.
The tool "How much should you charge?" estimates wages of users from more than 140,000 employment offers in Spain on Trovit, based on a form available on Facebook, where you must enter your profession, years of experience, your age and the city where you want to work.
In the week that the application was launched, the search engine had detected that in general, the Spanish worker "feels underpaid," said the Trovit Product Manager, Albert Ribera.
According to the data Trovit uses from its search engines in the United Kingdom and France, the Spanish are the lowest paid.
A British programmer charges 45,226 euros gross per year, and a French one 31,059, as opposed to the 24,000 a Spaniard receives.
Similarly, a driver receives an annual net pay of 34,247 euros in England, 25,751 in France, and 16,420 in Spain.
According to Trovit, the lowest paid job in Spain is waiter, with annual net earnings of 11,592 euros; followed by salesperson, with 14,725 euros, and operator, with 15,667 euros.
The most searched-for jobs on the net in the past three months are drivers, part-time jobs and social worker.
Brazil sets a release date for Zelaya
The Brazilian Government has put a deadline on Manuel Zelaya's stay in the embassy in Tegucigalpa.
The deposed president must leave the embassy by the 27th of January, 2010 at the latest, when his mandate officially ends.
"He is aware that he has to leave on January 27th, the end of his term; he has to look for another occupation."
The station also quoted the former president, who confirmed his intention to leave the embassy before the deadline: "My plan is to leave as soon as possible, obviously with the support of the Brazilian government," Zelaya said via telephone.
Following the November 29th elections (in which Profiro Lobo was elected), Zelaya said that he would remain in the embassy until January.
However, this very week, he tried to find refuge in Brazil.
The operation finally ended unsuccessfully with the rejection of Zelaya's political refugee status, which the Government headed by Roberto Micheletti tried to impose "de facto".
Thanks a lot
After days of wine and roses from last spring, when inflation was the prevailing trend on the markets, uncertainty again rears its ugly head, which is not surprising since it is their natural state, in an environment in which agents make decisions about the naturally uncertain future.
The cure prescribed by the central banks to stabilize the markets was to monetize debt with the direct purchase of assets and indirectly give an open bar liquidity at close-to-zero rates so that the financial institutions would buy deductible assets.
The central banks have already confirmed that direct purchases of assets have practically ended and, without questioning their unorthodox liquidity policy, are beginning to throw a spanner in the works as the ECB makes its yearly auction next week.
Therefore, investors doubt the ability of the global economy to sustain economic recovery without such unorthodox measures, and we are seeing a reversal of the reduction in risk premiums.
The volatility of the stock markets and the corporate bond spreads have swiftly picked up again, even though they are far behind the extreme levels that they reached at the beginning of the year.
The states were obligated to socialize private risk, and again public debt is going to be affected.
Again there is a flight for quality and the U.S., Japan and Germany have been the refuge of choice for investors, causing awider spread of the Eurozone countries in respect to Germany.
Spain hardly seems to have been affected by this period of instability, but that's when Standard and Poor's arrived and threatened a new revision, downgrading the Kingdom of Spain.
Furthermore, some uncertainty doesn't hurt to silence defenders of moral hazard, who again tried to raise awareness of those responsible for the global economic policy by having stopped the destructive effects derived from credit restrictions on the loss of jobs, when what should be done is to declare a new Thanksgiving Day.
However, Dubai's paints with a tribal fight between the emirs to restore power in the emirates,and we've already seen it before in Greece.
A Government which hides the public deficit, elections and a new Government that pulls up the rug.
Prodi did it in Italy after Berlusconi, and Socrates in Portugal after Barroso.
It doesn't make sense that Ecofin saved Hungry from a breach of its external payments at the beginning of the year, and thatit is going to let a euro member-country fail to fulfill its commitments.
What is logical is that Ecofin has forced the Greek government to be transparent, and make its citizens jointly responsible for the need for extraordinary measures to maintain the stability of its public finances.
If, as we hope, we find ourselves before a standardized period of transient risk premiums, after some excess of leveraged positions, it would be within our expectations.
In the case of Spain, since our public debt is spreading like the European corporate bonds, we should not be worried.
If the European spreads decrease and ours continue to expand, then it would be an idiosyncratic risk for Spain.
That of Standard & Poor's is an anecdote. When our leading indicators are forcing the majority of research services to anticipate its recovery scenarios and to revise up its scenario for 2011, including the OECD and the European Commission, they return to the fray with a Japanese scenario for the Spanish economy,and long life expectancy does not portend its warning.
Again, it has all the earmarks to be an excellent opportunity to buy Spanish assets, but for now, "prudence, my driver."
Related sectors
The Iberdrola Chairman, Ignacio Sanchez Galan, was the first to speak yesterday before the subcommittee of the House of Representatives, where Spain's energy strategy for the next two decades is currently being debated.
After his speech, which was followed by the president of Gas Natural-Fenosa, Rafael Villaseca, Galan gave the press a few glimpses of what was planned in the subcommittee behind closed doors.
For the president of Iberdrola, Spain needs to invest 50 billion euros by 2020 and another 60 billion between that date and 2030, while they keep operating the nuclear power plants which are presently open.
Otherwise, the investments required will not be 60 billion, but up to 95 billion.
Yes, Iberdrola believes that in the next decade investments should not be spent on increasing its generating capacity, but on distribution networks and on international interconnections.
From 2020 on, the matter changes and the power will have to increase.
His bet is in both coal plants withcarbon dioxide catchers and, especially, renewable sources of energy.
In this case, he considers that it takes 18,000 new MW, and that is with "support energy."
Though he believes that the Sustainable Economy Act, which the government has just approved, is in line with what his company has been calling for, Galan would not draw blood with a royal decree to promote the consumption of domestic coal, which contradicts the policies to combat climate change.
In his opinion, there is "a clear, long-term gamble" in this sense, despite the "sure" measures, as the Chairman of Iberdrola calls them.
As it is, Galan believes that the decisions to invest, even though they are long-term, should start to be made since it has already taken a long time to think them through, and a stable framework for addressing remuneration is necessary.
Ferrovial wins the 'handling' of Aer Lingus in ten airports
Ferrovial's airport ground services subsidiary, Swiss Swissport, is going to be the Irish airline Aer Lingus' preferred partner for cargo services in ten of the European airports where it operates.
Paris, London, Frankfurt and Brussels are among the most prominent.
The agreement, which has not transcended economic terms, will last for five years.
Moreover, Ferrovial, the autonomous government of Castile-La Mancha, and the University of Alcala de Henares signed a protocol of cooperation yesterday to create a Center for the Innovation of Intelligent Infrastructure.
The alliance includes an investment of 20 million by 2012, 50% of which comes from Ferrovial.
One of the center'stasks will be to research energy efficiency on highways and in airports.
Acciona disputes its first highway in Australia with Hotchief and Bouygues.
Acciona is struggling for its first highway concession in Australia, a market where it already operates as a an energy and water company.
The construction involves a 1.7 billion Australian dollar tunnel (about 1.047 billion euros).
The French Bouygues and German Hotchief are its rivals.
A 5-km tunnel in the Australian city of Brisbane, on the east coast, has become the closest chance for Accionato settle in the countryas a construction and motorway company.
The city council wants to have it completed by the end of 2014.
After opting for the public-private partnership (the acronym PPP in English) to move the project forward, in a business plan under the tutelage of Ernst & Young, the administration already has a final list of candidates to take over the work and exploit the toll.
Depending on the bids submitted by next May, the planned investment comes to 1.7 billion Australian dollars (1.047 billion euros) and three consortia, with a remarkable predominance of European construction firms, are competing in the final stage.
The group known as Transcity, is headed by Acciona, the only Spanish one in the competition, and its partners are BMD and Ghella.
The first is a major Australian construction company, while the second, based in Italy, is one of Europe's leading specialists in undergroundconstructions.
The Northern District consortium is pitted against Acciona's team, with the presence of Britain's Laing O'Rourke, the Australian infrastructure group Transfield, and the French construction group Bouygues.
The third and final consortium to make it through the selection process is called LBRJV, where Australia's Leighton (a subsidiary of the German construction company Hochtief, owned in turn by ACS), domestic Baulderstone (owned by the German group Bilfinger Berger) and Razel, the Gallic firm specializing in civil construction, split the capital.
The Australian infrastructures market promises big jobs and privatization, but it carries a clear start-up difficulty if it's not leaning towards hiring a local construction company.
It is one strategy that the aforementioned Hochtief and Bilfinger, in addition to Asian shareholders, have pursued, and one that remains unresolved for the Spanish giants in the industry.
ACS barely acquired a position in that market through its 30% stake in Hochtief, theproprietor of the aforementioned Leighton.
Asset millionaires
Acciona is bidding on a geographical location of the utmost importance for the sector, which already has a strong presence from its activity as an energy provider and the desalination business.
Among other assets, it has the largest wind farm, Waubra Wind Farm (192 MW) in Victoria, and leads the corporate groupresponsible for building and managing the desalination plant in Adelaida with a budget of 700 million.
Now it intends to consolidate these two areas and exploit synergies in the fields of construction and infrastructure operations.
The underground toll road, sponsored by the Brisbane Department of Infrastructure and the Northern Link, is calledupon to connect the Toowong Western Highway with the bypass in Kelvin Grove (see map) through the 5-kilometer tunnel.It is a major endeavor to reduce the traffic in Brisbane.
The timetable set by the administration sets the deadline for the decision in the summer of 2010 and for the work to start in December of next year.
Although this toll road would be open for traffic in the closing months of 2014, the work is not anticipated to be completed until 2016.
The tunnel began to take shape in 2005.
It will include two lanes in each direction, an electric toll system and a sophisticated ventilation system.
The Queensland government will provide 500 million dollars (308 million euros) for funding.
Brisbane is already offering business to Hochtief.
Australia continues to provide remarkable commodities to Hochtief, which announced its receipt of a Government contract worth 154 million yesterday.
The firm, owned in-part by ACS,will set up the national broadband infrastructure with fiber optic cables through its local subsidiary, Leighton.
This will provide high-speed internet access to 400,000 people and will provide work for the German firm for 18 months.
Moreover, the company has transferred the project to build the 27-story high King George Tower in the Australian city of Brisbane.The work has yet to begin, and Hochtief has closed the sale for 129 million.
Presently, in the U.K., more specifically in Manchester, Laing O'Rourke will partake in the construction and operation of two schools over 25 years.
The initial investment will total 75 million euros.
FCC awarded a tunnel in Slovenia for 64 million
FCC, through its subsidiary Alpine, has been awarded the construction of a 2.1-kilometer-long tunnel for a highway in Slovenia for 64.5 million euros.
The firm received this contract days after getting Bosruck's (Austria) tunnel expansion job.
By doing this, Alpine is strengthening its expertise in tunnel construction.
The construction is planned to start in the beginning of 2010, and the project timeframe will span 32 months.
Sra. Rushmore is awarded Renfe's advertising
Renfe has appropriated approximately three million euros annually for the advertising and marketing services of the Sra. Rushmore agency for the next two years, the railway operator reported.
The contract covers the possibility of two 12-month extensions.Sra. Rushmore has been chosen from the 16 agencies that entered the tender launched by Renfe, of which there were four finalists; among them was TBWA, which was in charge of creatives for the past 3 years.
From this point forward, Sra. Rushmore will be in charge of campaign design and production.
France Telecom fined 63 million for blocking competitors
The competition regulator in France has imposed a fine of 63 million euros on France Telecom for anti-competitive behavior in the country's Caribbean regions.
According to the institution, the operator limited landline and mobile phone competition by signing exclusive agreements, service plans, and loyalty programs with consumers outsideof regulation.
With this sanction, the former French monopoly and state-owned company has accumulated more than 560 million euros in fines since hindering its competitors in 1994.
The penalty imposed yesterday has, in fact, increased because the authority that oversees the competition believes France Telecom has committed similar violations in the past and, therefore, is a repeat offender.
Application shop
On the other hand, the mobile subsidiary of the French company has followed in the footsteps of other operators, and has opened an on-line application shop, with the aim of increasing revenues outside of telecommunications.
At first, the Orange Application Shop will be active in France and the U.K.
It will not reach other countries, including Spain, until 2010.
Playing the Champions League has yielded 476.4 million to Madrid and Barcelona since it was first established
The Champions League has become a source of income for clubs since it started in 1992.
So much so that Real Madrid and Barcelona have collected 476.4 million, making them the third and fifth club to have won the most money in the competition.
The head of the list is Manchester United.
The head of the list is Manchester United.
Winning the UEFA Champions League doesn't just earn you glory.It is also a major source of income for the big clubs.
So much so that UEFA figures show that the competition has dealt out 5,362.5 million euros to the 105 teams (12 of them from Spain) who have participated in the event since the tournament was founded in the 1992/1993 season.
Real Madrid and F.C. Barcelona have fared well in this distribution.
The white club has been the third on the continent to have pocketed more money from participating, and the only one, after AC Milan, to have won the trophy three times.
The Catalan team, the defending champion and last winner of the defunct European Cup in 1992, is fifth in the rankings.
At the top of the list are Manchester United and Bayern Much, two teams that have also made more money by participating in the Champions League.
And that is in spite of both of them losing against Barcelona.
What more, Spain is only the third country to have made more money through the Champions League despite having earned more titles than any other country (five, compared to Italy's four, England's three, and Germany's two).
Distribution
This apparent paradox is explained by the complicated payment system the UEFA uses.
For this fiscal year the body chaired by Michel Platini expects to collect 1.090 billion for the Champions League.
The UEFA dedicates 413.1 million of that money to pay fixed rates: each of the 20 clubs participating in the prequalifying round (including Atletico Madrid) receives 2.1 million.
Additionally, those who managed to participate received 3.8 million just for being there, in addition to another 550,000 euros for every game they play.
There are also bonuses for winning (800,000 euros) and for ties (400,000 for each team).The octa-finalists receive three million each; the eight quarterfinalists, 3.3 million.
The last four will pocket 4 million each.
The champion will win 9 million, versus the 5.2 million for the runner-up.
So, with the idea of the fixed rates, a club takes home at least 7.1 million, and at most 31.2 million.
Barcelona on the other hand pocketed 2.5 million for winning the European Super Cup in August.
But there are other varying payments to which 337.8 million are allocated.
This money is distributed according to the proportionate value of each television market.
Spain is the leader with four places allocated.
Last year's champion got 40% of the allocated money, 30% for second place, 20% for third, 10% for fourth.
The other part will be paid according to the number of games played this year.
Nueva Rumasa offers 61 million euros for 29.9% of Sos
Yesterday, the Nueva Rumasa holding company sifted through the details of the bid on shares which led to the acquisition of a stake of between 25% and 29.9% in Sos.
It is a percentage which doesn't require them to launch a takeover bid (OPA) for all of the securities.
Specifically, Nueva Rumasa is offering 1.5025 eurosper share, to be distributed over 10 years, and with a 1% annual interest rate.
Sos shares closed yesterday at 1.85 euros; so, Nueva Rumasa's offer undervalued the company 18% below the market value.
According to Nueva Rumasa, the price of 1.50 euros reflects the real value of Sos.
The offer is subject to the decision of eight of the 15 advisers.
The Jerezano group is giving a period of 15 days for shareholders to express their interest in selling securities.
The CNMV assured that it had not been informed of the offer, despite Ruiz Mateos' company saying that it had contacted a regulator.
If this comes to fruition, the payout would reach 611.7 million when the capitalization of Sos is at 254.27 million.
Meanwhile, Sos is restructuring its management.
In an attempt to stay out of possible takeover bids and the legal vagaries of its former managers, the brothers Jesus and Jaime Salazar, it announced the election of Maria Luisa Jordana as the director of the internal audit.
It is a decision which makes her the first woman to hold a senior position in the food company.
This is a newly created position which reports directly to the president of the group.
And not without controversy, as the company is still immersed in the legal battle for the alleged diversion of over 230 million from Sos to the Salazar brothers' holding company.
In fact, it's possible that Sos will reveal further diversions of funds in the next few months.
In regards to the Salazars' credit, the former advisers Ildefonso Ortega and Angel Fernandez Noriega (representatives of CCM and Unicaja) testified and affirmed that they approved of the diversion of 212 million without knowing where the money was going.
CNMV authorized the exclusion take-over bid submitted by Inversora Mer
Yesterday, the National Securities Market Commission (CNMV) approved of the exclusion take-over bid of Federico Paternina by Inversora Mer, which was presented last October 9th.
The supervisory agency explained that this operation is authorized after it is understood that its terms adjust to existing standards and that the information packet's contents, submitted after the amendments introduced last December 2nd, are considered sufficient.
The CNMV has stated that the offer addresses the purchase of 550,008 shares of Federico Paternina at 7.65 euros a share, representing 8.95% of its share capital, which consists of 6,142,786 shares that are traded on the stock exchanges in Madrid and Bilbao.
It also explained that it has frozen 5,592,778 million shares, which will not be traded in any way until the completion of the offer, which specified the price determined by Frederico Paternina in accordance with current regulations.
New tools for inspecting cars
In these days of storms and accidents, it is not only garages that are making a profit.
Every day, thousands of cars that have been in accidents are towed to a garage, where a technician must evaluate the damage and what the repair will cost.
No claim is the same, and calculating the cost of parts and labor can be a long and complicated task.
Manually calculating the cost of a repair between 20,000 and 30,000 euros, including parts and labor, may take two or three hours.
However, with the help of the most recent computer tools, it would take a matter of minutes.
This is why almost 100% of technicians are using this kind of system.
Providers of services, claims solutions, and maintenance are working to compile data supplied by manufacturers, and then process it and offer it to customers as a useful tool.
In Spain, Audatex, of the North American Groupo Solera, is the industry leader;80% of assessments are done using their products.
The other firms in the sector, competing in the field of data assessment and processing, are GtMotive and Eurotax.
Working with data supplied by manufacturers is far from simple.
According to Eduardo Velazquez, the Audatex business manager, 63 manufacturers and importers are working in Spain, and each of them submits data in a different format.
Furthermore, the amount of data to process is increasing to the point where they have released more versions, variants and engines in the last five years than in the previous 15.
When a new car hits the market, these companies get to work.
It's very arduous work because you have to catalog each of the thousands of vehicle parts andenter in your price.
In addition, a "smart" graphic is made for each model, where you can "click" on different parts of the car.
If it is a mass-market model, the work can be ready in a week, provided the process goes quickly.
If it's an uncommon car, it can take up to three or four months.Currently, Audatex provides comprehensive data for 99.2% of the cars sold in Spain.
Among the most exclusive models, information is available for a Porsche, but not a Ferrari or Lamborghini for example.
As for the number of cars in circulation, it is over 99%.
In order to document and develop the databases, Audatex has eight centers scattered around the world (Spain, France, Germany, USA, Brazil, Mexico, China and Japan), and each of these specializes in a specific brand.
Its national headquarters is in Alcobendas (Madrid).
There, over a hundred technicians (usually expert mechanics) work with three computer screens at the same time.
Audatex invests 90 million euros a year in developing these databases.
Every month, 2.5 million pieces of information are added, and clients receive updates every two days.
Developing that huge flow of information lets them give these companies different applications and varied products.
The most common use focuses on maintenance and repair, but depending on the country, there are also tools to manage scrap pieces and to calculate the market and residual value of a car.
The only company with a used car guide available in Spain is Eurotax.
Audatex doesn't offer one in our country, but it does in the United States.
In view of the products that Audatex offers, it is easy to get an idea of the kind of support available to professionals in this sector.
This company offers 10 different tools; AudaPlus, being the flagship product, is the standard solution, designed to allow technicians to assess claims.
It includes cars, motorcycles, and light and heavy industrial vehicles.
Besides the cost of parts, it includes manufacturer estimates of repair times and paint charts.
This tool charges according to the use, for each appraisal.
The highest cost is 5.75 euros for customers who rarely use it, 10 times a month at most.
Then, every insurance company that makes thousands of assessments negotiates their price with Audatex.
Other products, like AudaVIN, facilitate the complete identification of a vehicle and the equipment that it left the assembly line with, just from its vehicle identification number.
AudaGlass focuses on the glass parts of a car, and AudaSubastas is an on-line service open to the professional sector which facilitates the bidding on vehicles calssed as write-offs.
Their statistics service is very useful for identifying trends, geo-demographic analysis and knowing standard deviations of makes and models.
You can study, for example, how many models of a particular make have gone to a shop because of malfunctions or how many have been in serious accidents in a certain period.
Gt Motive is the only Spanish company working to develop these kinds of tools.
It sells, among others, the GT Estimate, which is again designed for technicians and also provides digital images, access to parts and the manufacturer's official prices and times.
GT Motive is a Grupo EINSA company, which was founded in 1971 as a provider of automotive services and solutions for assessing damage, malfunctions and maintenance.
The GT Appraisal Guide is its historical reference product on the market.
They work with 24,000 users in garages, 3,100 technicians and 53 insurance companies.
Its turnover has grown by 20% per year over the past three years, and it brought in 10.8 million euros in 2008.
Early last year, the globalization process started with the installation of an office in Paris.
Meanwhile, Audatex was founded in Germany in 1966 and set up shop in Spain in 1979.
According to company sources, 62% of its business is generated in Europe and the rest of the world, and the remaining 37% in North and South America.They work with more than 900 insurance companies and 33,000 shops, 3,000 of which are in Spain.
Grupo Solera's (Audatex, Sidexa, Informex ABZ, Hollander and IMS) worldwide turnover will total 557 million dollars, 3.3% more than 2008.
In our country, the company brought in 19.1 million euros, 7.2% more than last year.
In 2005, Grupo Solera was valued at 1 billion dollars on the stock exchange, and its shares are now listed for a total of 2.4 billion dollars.
It is been listed on the NYSE since 2007 and is included in Standard & Poor's reference index.
Damaged car on-line auctions
Last October, Grupo Solera bought Autoonline, an internet platform for selling cars, motorcycles, and especially damaged vehicles.
The endeavor entailed an outlay of 59.5 million euros for 85% of the company's capital, which would increase in the upcoming year by the remaining 15%.
The aim of the acquisition was to offer more value-added services to its customers, with the possibility of reaching an immense international market.
This appraisal and buying and selling service is directed exclusively at professionals in the sector, such as insurance companies, technicians, renting agencies, shops, scrap yards, and professional sellers who must register before using it.
This platform was created in Germany in 1996, and it manages more than 650,000 transactions throughout Europe, 500,000 of them in Germany.
Its major markets include Spain, Greece, Poland and Turkey.
The site currently has more than 1,500 registered sellers and 4,000 technicians.
It oversees 3,000 listings a day, and around 100 new listings are added every day on the Spanish market.
Under Spanish law, a car whose vehicle identification number has been unregistered cannot be put back into circulation but can be used for undamaged spare parts.
Cars with historical value can be registered, even though they have been unregistered, after a lengthy registration process.
A shop's estimate in four steps
With the AudaTaller tool, Audatex guarantees that the user gets an estimate in only 4 steps: identify the vehicle, look for the spare part, create an estimate and generate an estimate.
User friendliness is an essential condition for these systems, especially to convincing older technicians, who, to varying degrees, are usually more reluctant to use new management techniques.
The database includes 1,034 vehicles, 666 of which are cars, 109 sport-utility vehicles, 137 motorcycles, 78 vans and 44 trucks.
Naturally, a computer with an internet connection is needed to use it.
After identifying the model to be repaired by its vehicle identification number, an effective graphic image of the model appears, and then the necessary part is selected.
The user can include variables such as the price of labor, surcharges and discounts, and can then print the estimate for the client.
AudaTaller is not an appraisal tool like AudaPlus, but rather a reference catalog.
The main difference is that the system aimed at garages does not include labor time estimates.
The cost of using this tool in a shop is 350 euros a year, which the customer can finance.
Presently, Audatex is working to make these images three-dimensional.
This is an innovation mechanics are approving of because it will enable you, for example, to select a door and turn it around to see the inside.
What will they do? CSSD lacks knowledge of both Voldemort and candy bars in Prague
New Councilors of CSSD will most probably have to overcome certain language barriers to understand their old-new colleagues from ODS in Prague Council and municipal council.
Coded vocabulary that was established by Prague political elite during the previous era of the mayor Pavel Bem, describes some of the most famous persons, situations and affairs in the city.
Surprisingly, it turned out that the new council members do not understand the well-known concepts.
At least they say so.
"Who is Voldemort?"
"I really do not know."
"I'm rather a novice in Prague politics," responded Lukas Kaucky, the Councilor for culture, to the test of "Godfather" vocabulary.
And even though he is a political veteran, the Councilor Karel Brezina responded similarly.
For instance regarding the term "golf hole."
"It's the only one of the presented words that I use at least occasionally."
"Otherwise, I generally do not recognize the slang."
The Socialists were to explain the concepts of "Voldemort," the "greatest golf hole in Prague," "go to a candy bar," "bull neck," "betrayal of the capital" and "to plate with metal."
"I do not pay attention to such things at all and I am not going to evaluate the way the Civic Democrats talk."
"I am rather concerned how we will match our programs," he said.
As we already mentioned, Councilor Lukas Kaucky would reportedly not recognize in the above heading that it is about an influential entrepreneur and friend of ex-Mayor Bem, Roman Janousek.
"Voldemort" bears no meaning to Kaucky and the only term he correctly guessed in the test is "the greatest golf hole in Prague."
"It's Blanka tunnel," says Kaucky, and immediately adds: "But I know it from the newspapers."
"I'll have to get myself a language course," he quips.
Golf hole as the Blanka tunnel was then correctly deciphered by not only the matador Karel Brezina, but also the Councilor for the environment, Lukas Plachy.
Both Social Democrats then also know who is actually Voldemort and Lukas Plachy is familiar with this character - he also guesses the right meaning of the phrase "to go to a candy bar."
"That means going to a company in Prague" he sails close to the meaning, which is the office of Janousek's companies.
Similarly to Brezina he notes that he gained the knowledge from the newspapers rather than using such a vocabulary himself.
According to the testees, there is no such groovy glossary of slang terms in Social Democrats Party.
"I even consulted my colleagues, but it seems that we really do not have anything like that."
"At school I was called Birch, but I do not know if my colleagues call me so," he admits his own nickname, Karel Brezina.
Nicknames are also the only thing accepted by the Social Democrats in the intra-party speech.
The government wants to limit the torture of "witches," a brochure was released
Women declared as witches in Burkina Faso usually have several common characteristics.
They rather come from the older generation, cannot engage in work for health reasons for instance, are unmarried and have no children.
The one who "becomes" a witch is sent into isolation in order to not jeopardize the rest of the village.
"Such a fate befalls men only very rarely."
"Nor healthy young women are sent away because they help with work and bear children," says the nun, who takes care for more than a hundred women banished from their community in a special care home in the capital of Burkina Faso, West Africa.
Local government now decided to combat the unusual "social measures."
It has published an information booklet, which should help limit the witch-hunt.
But there is a snag in that.
"More than 70 percent of adults in Burkina Faso cannot read," pointed out the disadvantage of written education Die Standard daily.
Accusations of witchcraft are also common in other African countries.
In Ghana, which borders with Burkina Faso, a seventy-two Amma Hemmah died last week after three women and two men tortured her, doused in kerosene and set alight.
The case was reported by BBC.
The perpetrators claim that it was an unfortunate coincidence.
According to their version the oil that is used for ritual anointing ignited and burned the woman to death.
It allegedly burst into flames after the group wanted to "expel the evil spirit" from the woman.
Isolation of "witches" is widely supported by people regardless of their education level.
Daily Der Standard quoted a businessman of forty-two from Burkina Faso: "Devourers of human souls have always posed a danger," he said.
While in Burkina Faso the government is trying hard to moderate the witch hunt, the Gambia's President himself participated in the hunt last year.
"He invited shamans from nearby Guinea to help him and they accompanied by policemen, soldiers and president's private security guards forced randomly selected men and women from Gambian villages to the president's ranch in Kanilai," said Amnesty International in their report.
The arrested people had to drink a potion of herbs with hallucinogenic effects, which also causes intestinal and kidney problems.
Two prisoners did not survive.
After international pressure nearly a thousand of inmates were released.
Bakala's tenant: Heating in the stove, signed the rent increase
An older heavyset man walked out of the door of the client center of RPG Flats Company owned by the 'coal baron' Zdenek Bakala, the largest privately owned rental apartments" owner in the Czech Republic.
Under his arm he carried a folder with new lease contracts to three flats: his, his daughter's and his son's, who is in prison.
All the three's rent has just risen due to deregulation.
From next year will the son pay CZK 4100 for the second class 2 +1 apartment instead of the current CZK 3500 per month.
"And there is no hot water and we must heat in the "Petra stove" (solid fuel stove, ed. note) " the man points his finger on his son's new contract, which he is authorized to signed by proxy.
"But I signed it," he says half angrily, half resignedly.
BytyOKD.cz Civic Association, which identified the new tenancy conditions as "unfair and immoral," advises tenants not to sign the new contract and wait until 7 December, when they will publish a guidance on how to counter them.
But the man remains skeptic.
"One says this, another that," he frowns.
Ostrava has become a great laboratory of deregulation.
After the New Year the vast majority of dwellings with non-market rent in the Czech Republic will be subject to deregulation.
Standing right at the door, there is a security guard from a security agency with a call device nearby.
Special button "Rent 2011" shines on the touch screen.
One tap and the machine issues a slip with a number.
You do not even manage to read "157" and your figure beeps on the large screen below the ceiling of the waiting room.
It is your turn in half a second.
An older couple comes to ask about the lease after a few moments, there is apparently no rush for new leases in the waiting room at all.
Most people came to solve the same problems as usual - request for repairs, insured events etc.
Letters with new leases have been sent to mailboxes of most of the tenants of 44 thousand dwellings RPG portfolio in the Ostrava region since about mid-November.
RPG Byty proposes to increase rent by 15 to 38 percent in these letters.
A special desk for new leases was opened on 18 November in the client center.
"It has been in operation for over a week, so it's only run-in," respond the clerks at the desk after some hesitation, when the client introduces himself as a journalist.
Deregulation and Bakala's former mining flats are local hot topic.
Before the elections, it was quite loudly adopted by Parliament Vice-President and a native of Ostrava Lubomir Zaoralek of the Social Democrats, and even now it fills local newspapers.
"I have been asking them for this new floor for twenty years."
"They have not even changed a f..king plate in the bathroom," relieves the man mentioned in the introduction.
It is mostly the retired who only come to see if they can I get a discount on rent if they sign on time, as RPG their promises in their special offer.
Half off the February rent will also receive the other tenants who will have signed the new contract by 15 December.
"Out of yesterday's 360 clients only about forty to fifty came to inquire about leases in 2011," estimates the clerk behind the counter.
RPG on their bulletin boards and Web site proposed the negotiation of individual contracts where needed.
However, if the parties fail to agree on the lease, an independent tribunal will have to establish the rent.
"This is not a threat, but the information on the only possible legitimate and completely legal procedure," says RPG on its website.
"Nobody will sue them here," said one of the RPG Flats clerks and the man on the street outside the client center partly agrees.
"I have CZK 13,000 pension and five thousands are left for the meals, I cannot afford bringing it to the court," he said.
The clerk but then doubts after all.
"We'll see."
"Mr. Zaoralek advises them in the media not to sign, so some people are waiting," she thinks.
The regulation of rents ends in the most of the Czech Republic with the New Year 2011 and according to RPG Byty is the increase of rents an economic necessity.
"The current rent is still less than the amount needed for simple maintenance of housing stock," commented Pavel Klimes, director of RPG portfolio of residential apartments, and reminded that neglect of the housing stock complained about in relation just to those angry tenants, is the main reason for the increase in rents according to the house owners.
While within the five years between 2005 and 2010 could RPG invest four billion from the rents into the apartments, within the four years between 2011 and 2014 it should be 5.2 billion.
"The increase in rents in 2011 by 15% and less concerns 31,200 flats, it is more than 90% of RPG apartments."
"And it will always be a maximum of CZK 7.50 per square meter and month," appears on the screen.
Only for 400 apartments of RPG portfolio the rent will rise by 38 percent.
"In these cases there will be an increase from an extremely low amount of CZK 19.66 per square meter," points RPG.
In 2600 apartments will the rent remain the same next year.
RPG Byty promises that deregulation of rents will not be sudden, it will be spread over four to eight years.
It adds another commitment: all the money from rent increases (see the chart) will be invested by the company back to the flats, especially in heat savings - new windows and insulation.
Priority will be given to people who sign the agreement to increase rents.
Offices need a kindergarten nearby, architects have understood
Avriopoint Office Building in Brno is the new headquarters of Arch.Design Company.
Nobody would expect that it contains a tiny kindergarten with everything necessary - with colored walls, imaginative furniture, a bunch of toys and even a miniature golf course on the outdoor terrace.
Since October last year the children of Arch.Design employees can attend.
Architectural design company, Arch.Design, whose studios produced a number of important buildings in Brno, have included the space for their corporate tiny kindergarten even in the first drawings of the Avriopoint building.
It indeed employs nearly 90 people - mainly baby-boom-aged and they want their female designers and architects to quickly return to work.
Along with the possibility of part-time contracts the kindergarten is a benefit that Arch.Design offers to their employees within their welfare program.
Female construction engineers and architects have thus the opportunity to combine their demanding jobs with child care.
Tinz kindergarten has been invented by Arch. Design employees themselves and with the support from management they were able to obtain a grant of the European Union and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs.
Corporate tiny kindergarten is funded by the European Social Fund through the Operational Program Human Resources and Employment and state budget of CZ.
Thanks to grant funding (subsidy of 2.8 million) they were able to purchase equipment and for the period of two years provide qualified personnel and operation.
After the depletion of financial aid (2 years) the Arch.Design Company must operate the kindergarten for 3 years at its own expense.
Preparation of the project lasted one year and the Economy Rating Company helped with the applications for grant significantly.
The care is provided by qualified staff, children are taken care of by a nurse and a kindergarten teacher all day; the kindergarten can therefore be attended by children without any age restrictions, but most of them are over 3 years old.
As this is a "Mini-kindergarten," only 5 children may be present at the same time, even though more can attend in the course of the day altogether.
The operation of the kindergarten is flexible to the needs of parents and children of all employees have the same right to use the nursery, regardless of the position in the company hierarchy.
Although this is an individual education and care, the program content in the mini-kindergarten is comparable with the framework program of preschool education.
Children are not only playing here, they are also provided with quality teaching - from basic knowledge to preparation for schooling and English is also taught here.
The class is not only equipped with toys, inspiring games, but also with a computer that children can use.
The presence of small children directly in the company creates a friendly and positive environment.
Parents can always check their child and it prevents stress situations related to delayed pick-up from nurseries located far from their parents" workplace.
Parents then use the working time much more efficiently.
Not surprisingly, a loyal employee - employer relationship is produced there naturally.
Arch.Design became one of the Czech companies, which offer significant benefit when recruiting new employees, they are friendly to the family and through this program they have enhanced personnel marketing.
House of bones fascinates even after 100 years. Look at the interiors by Gaudi
The roof looks like a prehistoric lizard's spine, the staircase reminds of a dinosaur backbone and balconies are open fish mouths.
The locals started to call it the House of bones for its organic shapes.
The facade of the house opens dreamy lines, soft colors and textures reminiscent of nature and animals.
The detailed look reveals geometry, rhythm, and well-considered order.
At night, the entire facade of the house seems even more dramatical, it is lit so that the gloss paint impression would be further enhanced.
Winding and twisting shapes appear equally as much indoors.
Wood follows in the window frames in the waves, along with handrails, door trim, moldings and watch.
Reconstruction took place for two years and the house was completed in 1906.
Architect Josep Maria Jujol cooperated with him.
It was his developer's board where the decorations for the representative apartment of the property owner were created, as well as the use of a mosaic on the facade.
A number of other authors and artists worked on the facade.
Jujol took part in the construction of Gaudi's building Casa Mila and Park Guell, which contains other Gaudi's works.
The locals started to call it the "House of bones" for its organic shapes soon after its completion.
Others began to call it a "yawning house" for its specific mechanism of windows opening.
It is also said that on top of the building there is a representation of the sword of St. George, the patron of Catalonia.
Other sculptural elements of the building also contain hidden religious motives.
Gaudi designed a central heating system in the house, unique for his time, with ventilation and typical chimneys.
Their forty-five degree slope may seem bizarre.
When creating Gaudi totally disregarded building regulations of the time and did not let them tied him up.
At the start of construction he actually received a building permit from the city, but the provided details about the planned reconstruction were so vague, that two years after the completion the City Council was horrified by the result and asked for redress.
Councilors did mind for example that the building interfered with its pillars into the public sidewalk.
The owner himself moved to lower floors.
There was a banquet hall in the gallery on the second floor and on the third floor there was a bedroom and a private section of the apartment.
The ground floor was leased to a jewelry.
The entire six-storied building is intersected by a staircase, which ends only at the roof terrace.
The key elements of the reconstruction were the abolition of all right angles and straight lines and replacing them with curved walls.
The social part is completely connected by opening the saloon door and a larger group can comfortably communicate without losing the necessary privacy for intimate conversations.
The house won due to Gaudi's rebuilding a new facade and also the unusual roof and two extra floors.
Gaudi's play with light is also impressive, along with blue and white glazed tiles used to line the inner courtyard and skylights.
The play of two colors delivers a maximum of light on all floors of the house.
It was enough to gamble on the principle that white reflects light more than dark colors, which absorb the sun's rays on the contrary.
The most spacious and most luxurious apartment has been opened to the public on the first floor.
The owners decided to move this up in 2002 to celebrate the one hundred fiftieth anniversary of the birth of the famous author.
They kept providing the excursions since they discovered that this is a very profitable business, plus they extended tours by the common and attic spaces, including a roof terrace.
Admission to the sight is certainly not negligible, amounts to 16.50 euros, while students, seniors, groups and travel passes holders receive a twenty percent discount.
The amount greatly exceeds the price of admission to other Gaudi's buildings in the city.
If you want to experience the true atmosphere of the house with dragon towers, you have to quickly make friends with any of the inhabitants of the apartment house and visit them at home.
How to choose the mattress and the slatted bed base: Women have different requirements from men
Not luxurious bed frame, but the quality of the lying area, that is the mattress and slatted bed base gives a really good bed.
They must however match in a harmonious way to suit a specific user.
The selection decisions are influenced by lots of things such as the weight, height, age, health, and gender of the owner.
Also the type of interior, into which the mattress and slatted base are purchased, is important.
A typical example?
For instance for summer houses which are not heated regularly, latex mattresses are not suitable because they warm up rather slowly.
In addition, they tend to have significantly higher weight than a standard polyurethane foam mattress.
It is also necessary to turn them regularly.
If they do not have enough venting channels in their core, and still lie on a hard board, they retain moisture: Even mold could occur beneath the mattresses.
The choice is also influenced by habits.
Who spent more time abroad, where they often use very thick mattresses with softening layer, they will find it hard to feel good on a thin one with hard surface.
"Perhaps all hockey players returning from the NHL complained to me that they were sleepless."
"Their battered shoulders, heels and hips needed the mattress to be softened with a layer of lazy foam."
"Those are recommended even for people with diabetes who have a nervous system disorder, so they assume 'information' from the joints and skin in an ill way," explains Sylvia Hadamczikova, who specializes in upholstered furniture.
She therefore looked for lazy foam mattresses for many hockey players, but also other customers years ago.
"Now it's okay, suitable mattresses can be found at Tempur, Italian Magniflex, but also Czech Tropico."
You need not be an NHL guy to appreciate the lazy foam.
This "miracle" works in a simple manner.
Optimizes its rigidity and shape by the heat absorbed or adapts to your body warm.
You feel no press and will not keep changing position on your bed all night as if you were after a tough game.
You will just sleep better.
Lazy foam also works well as a protection against pressure sores.
When choosing the size of your mattress thickness, add one foot length to your height, which is about 21-34 cm.
Man and woman with a height of about 180 cm then need a bed of 210-220 cm.
The minimum width for one should be 90cm in double bed, i.e. 180 cm altogether.
In separate beds, for example for singles, it is recommended at least 120 to 140 cm.
For both usual comfort and a possible visitor.
For everyone needs their own mattress and a slatted base in a double bed, be careful to buy match the thickness of mattresses when buying them.
Otherwise you will have to fit into slatted bases into different heights, which may not be possible with every frame of the bed.
Foam mattress should be at least 14 cm, while the frame types with a spring framework should be at least 15 cm, including at least three centimeters count for the shaping and softening layer.
"You must not feel the springs when touching the mattress with hands or sitting down on the mattress," warns Helena Prokopova.
Each mattress requires a certain type of slatted base.
Upholstered beds, where the mattress and the foundation are like conjoined Siamese twins, should not appear in bedrooms.
It is hard to air the mattresses; you can not wash the fabric either, which should be a must today.
And since we normally perspire 0.2 to 0.75 liters of sweat during the night, it is obvious that after five to seven years the mattress will resemble a large (and clogged) sieve.
That's why experts refuse advertising slogans of life of the mattress up to 25 years, or even a lifetime warranty.
Everything has its pros and cons.
Therefore, the practical advice from vendors is as follows: Do not give up hygiene for mattresses with a width of 120 and 140 cm and their removable and washable cover, rather add a mattress protector, which can be easily removed and washed.
Although today mattress covers are now commonly manufactured with a zip around the perimeter, so after opening you get two parts (vital for washing and the size of washing machine!), handling the larger types when removing them (and in one person) may remind of a match of light-weight fightnig a heavy one in the ring.
Do you have a fixed plate in the bed instead of a slatted base?
Never!
If so, then only in a bed for one-night visitors.
The board should nevertheless be equipped (if not already) with ventilation holes and use the mattress with spring framework of a minimum height of 15 cm with springs in the bags (from German Taschenfederkern) and a softening layer.
Polyurethane mattresses should not be on such a basis.
For non-positioning slats with 14-18 blades, latex or sandwich mattresses will be suitable (maybe a combination of latex and coconut), but it always pays back to get the slatted bases with larger number of blades, 28 or more, where there are double blades in the lumbar area and their stiffness can be regulated.
Mattresses with spring frames should not lie on adjustable slats as they do not respond to positioning.
In addition to adjusting the stiffness of slats you can also enjoy the so-called shoulder cradle.
This is a special mounting of blades, which enables to push, or even tilt the plate so that the arm of the sleeper would nicely "fit into the mattress."
For men whose shoulders are "all over their back," this is certainly an important thing.
Even mattress manufacturers respect it when in "men" mattresses they began to use the softening zone right in the shoulder area.
They also remember the women - those indulge in the softer surface of the hip area.
Aileron or lamellar gratings with the so-called multi-torsion suspension are intended for the most demanding customers.
The pressure is spread into several points and the tension reduces.
But be careful when you use a wrong pillow with a correct mattress and slatted base (large and "stuffed"), most of the "pluses" will disappear.
The basic rule is simple: The cushion should support the head and touch the shoulders with its corners so that the shoulder muscles could relax.
A suitable size of 50 x 60 cmis recommended, preferred for example in Scandinavia.
When lying on the side, the pillow should be able to deal (along with the shoulder cradle of the slatted bed or softened zone in the mattress) with shoulder height.
Modern mattresses do have something in common with original mattresses filled with grasses.
Their manufacturers increasingly use natural materials, or at least admixtures.
There is simply an organic trend even in mattresses.
Raw materials from oil, out of which polyurethane foam is made, are being replaced with natural oils, such as from soy and castor-oil plant.
It is just soy that all well-known manufacturers use now.
"Organic in mattresses means that the core is made of purely natural material," explains Petr Vasicek from the company Tropico Plus.
Natural products are also used in the production of mattress covers, one of the first was aloe vera.
But you can also indulge in microcapsules that can release fresh scent of lavender or forest.
There is even a division for men and women.
While men are "cooled" by herbal extract of birch, so that the mattress cover would absorb heat and cool the body, women are on the contrary "warmed" by the covers.
The extract of red pepper increases circulation of blood, so the weaker sex feels warmer.
Today's favorites?
Mattress made of cold foam (with larger pores with a damaged cell structure is more breathable than regular polyurethane and has a better elasticity.
Combining different stiffnesses of cold foams and "lazy" foam result in multi-zone mattresses that know exactly where the head should be, as well as shoulders and heels.
You will pay seven thousand crowns and above for a good quality mattress.
Those that meet health parameters tend to have lower rate of VAT as they are considered medical equipment.
Gumotex was the first to employ this advantage in the Czech Republic.
It is not easy to save on the mattress and the slatted base.
Sometimes you can use special offers of manufacturers or retailers, who offer two mattresses for the price of one.
For instance Magniflex brand offers their Duofreeze mattress with the memory foam Memory sewn into the cover for 11 990 crowns.
However, you can get the second one for free.
The era of lazy or viscoelastic foams with open cell structure and high density was started by Tempur material in a "cosmic" pace.
It was originally developed as a material for NASA because the astronauts were exposed to enormous overextertion during the start.
Tempur softens when warm, but strengthens in the cold.
It is then perfectly adapted to warm human body and spreads its pressure optimally.
It is therefore ideal to prevent pressure ulcer development, but also to enhance comfort while sleeping.
Viscoelastic foams are used not only for mattresses, but also medical products, such as special pillows under the feet, which mitigate the legs and venous system.
Domestic producers use the foam Twinsaver or Eucatherm C and such.
Devices for people monitoring are required by more and more parents, who want to watch their children
Fear for their own child brings more people to the idea of watching them using GPS.
The facility is currently of the size of a matchbox, but it may soon be as big as a watch.
Many people have been scared by the case of missing Annie and thus began to search for ways to protect their children better.
Even at the cost of disruption to their privacy.
"We say to all that it is not spying, but a means to further reduce the probability that a tragedy happens," said Petr Pilin of the Macro Weil, one of the suppliers of surveillance equipment on the Czech market.
"I admit that under certain circumstances it may lead to misuse of such equipment, if they are put in a bag of someone who does not know it, but we have not seen such cases yet."
"Most customers actually buy it for security reasons," he added.
According to him, the child should always know for what the purpose of the "box" is and how it is used in an emergency.
"Even very young children show great creativity how to lose some things on purpose if they do not want to be under control."
According to her it is questionable whether, in the event of an attack such a device would really help.
"As for the upcoming kidnapping, the perpetrator almost always ensures that the child should not carry any electronics that might reveal his position."
"It's the phone now."
"When tracking devices get more common, they will look for those, because their sales will certainly be supported by massive advertising."
"In this case, the criminals are always one step ahead of police," says the psychologist.
She admits, however, that similar devices may help in case of sudden attack by a pedophile.
According to Robert Cech of RC Monitoring Company that provides tracking services for both cars and for people, even when there is an attack and immediate destruction of the tracking device, its presence can help.
"The device can be set to send regular position report after a certain period of time."
"If it becomes damaged, we will have at least the last position of the person."
"The more expensive devices have in-built and tiltmeters, so even if one just skids and remains lying motionless, the device immediately sends a warning with location," says Czech.
According to him a similar service may be provided by smart mobile phones with navigation, where it is enough to load a special software.
The problem of current surveillance units lies in the fact that it is either a device similar to pendants of matchbox size or smaller mobile phones.
There is always the risk of their loss.
According to Pilin from the Macro Weil Company a device that looks like a conventional digital watch is now being tested.
"This will be the biggest advantage that the aggressor may not even recognize the tracking device at all."
"Or they recognize it after some time and it may give the police extra time," he adds.
Whether you the tracking devices develop into bracelets or pendants, they are still using the same technology as that used for monitoring vehicles.
It is a combination of location detection via GPS (used by regular car navigation) and the functions of a mobile phone, which reports the current vehicle position.
The army has enough igniter cord to wind the whole of Czech Republic. But they will expire in only two years.
Czech army has purchased 445 kilometers of cords, which detonate explosives.
Already last year the Ministry of Defence delivered 224 km of the cords lines into the warehouses.
The army thus has reserves for 225 years.
The problem is that life of the lines is two to four years.
The Army purchased the detonating cords from STV Group, Inc. for CZK 40 million.
The General Staff provided the reasoning for buying such a huge quantity of igniter cords to MF Dnes stating that soldiers use 60 km of igniter cords in training per year.
Calculations of army bomb disposal experts that the MF Dnes approached imply that it would be a very intense pyrotechnic training that would be undergone also by all the generals every year, along with the officers of the army, secretaries and cleaners.
Defense Minister Alexandr Vondra and army commander Vlastimil Pick included.
Only thus could be the army annual consumption of sixty kilometers of igniter cords justified.
This period corresponds to 25,000 explosions.
And even if it were true, the army reserves would be enough for more than ten years.
However, if the basic training of any new professional actually needed just two meters of the igniter cord, as the experts say, then the army has ensured by the purchase - even with increased consumption by engineer or special units - the stock for the above 225 years.
Rapid Deployment Brigade soldiers personally complained recently to the minister Vondra that they have almost no ammunition for small arms and so shootings are limited due to shortage of money.
Not mentioning the lack of underwear.
"I do not understand either, that they buy so many igniter cords from us repeatedly."
"But it's their decision, and they certainly know what they will use them for."
Defense Ministry spokesman Jan Pejsek reasons for the purchased hundreds of kilometers of cords by creation reserves of such "munitions" for ten years at least.
"If stored under perfect conditions, it can be even four," said one, who as a soldier does not want to disclose the name when criticizing the military.
After expiry date any ammunition must be carefully tested for reliability to make sure it does not endanger the life of soldiers.
These tests are not free and it cost more money.
Another argument of the Ministry is the quantity discount on 445 km of the ignition cords.
"It cost us about sixty percent less than last year's supply of two hundred forty-four kilometers," says the speaker Pejsek the opinion of buyers of the Ministry of Defence.
Just for comparison: Annual consumption of firing lines of police deminers who destroy munitions from World War II and the one left after the Soviet army has not exceeded 1500 meters for several years.
A police orders only such amount of the ammunition that would be used before its expiration.
It paid back for the safety of deminers and the flexibility to acquire more modern and thus more reliable types of lines.
Ministry of Defence has already considerable problems with the liquidation of tens of thousand tons of ammunition from the times of the Warsaw Pact, when the two-hundred-thousand Czechoslovak army was preparing to set off for the Rhine.
The Czech one, according to the pyrotechnicians approached by MF Dnes, will face the same problem in a few years: They will dispose of hundreds of kilometers of old igniter cords that are currently "cheaply" purchased.
To this day I use the contacts I gained through the competition
Winning the prize in the Entrepreneur of the year helped Lukas Pytloun sell the franchise of his hotel.
The winner of last year's Entrepreneur of the year was a twenty-eight-year-old entrepreneur Lukas Pytloun from Liberec.
His success story is much like one from a movie.
And abroad he realized that Liberec lacks quality accommodation at a reasonable price.
Using his savings from foreign part-time jobs and a bank loan he purchased a ruined house with five apartments.
It was a great courage considering that at that time he was still a student of the third year at university.
"The ratio between quality and price of accommodation of the time in our country made me I try to do something," says Lukas Pytloun.
The first renovated apartment he rented to foreign workers.
All profits were invested back into the house, which he gradually remodeled into a boarding house with 54 beds.
Since then, he has managed to gradually open four guest houses in Liberec within the seven years of his business, along with two stylish restaurants and two hotels with a total capacity of 300 beds across all categories of accommodation.
Until recently, the most comfortable one was Pytloun four-star design hotel.
This year another one was open, equally good.
"We have signed a contract with a hotel in Ostrov u Tise, where we sold our franchise concept and others interested in the Pytloun hotel franchise are applying," says last year's number one trader.
"And the sale of the license to operate the hotel was very much influenced just by winning the competition Entrepreneur of the year," appreciatively adds Pytloun.
The victory brought more reputation and popularity in Liberec and its surroundings.
"People recognized me in the streets, often additionally congratulated me and I must say it felt good," he recalls.
He strongly encourages all who are eager to try something to participate in the competition.
It is not necessary to win, any visibility is good.
He says he still draws on contacts and acquaintances, which would perhaps not get otherwise.
"With some I've met through the competition, I started a regular business."
In his opinion, the glory associated with the success landed a bit on each employee.
And there are about seventy of them.
"I see them show greater loyalty and pride that they are involved in something that gained universal recognition."
"It's much more than just my personal success, as it is the result of good work of all of us together."
I wish my successor quieter year than we had in Farmet
Euphoria of victory was quickly replaced by the effects of the crisis.
With self-discipline of the winner Farmet has already overcome bad times.
The jury then appreciated the efforts by which a small tool workshop in Ceska Skalice grew into a business with hundred-million turnovers.
"I can say that the award encouraged not only me but all my colleagues and increased our confidence for battles with the competition," says the last-year winner today.
In the early history of the Farmet company there was a desire to do something useful.
Soon after that they began to specialize in vegetable oil presses.
After eighteen years, they became the largest manufacturer of automatic presses in Central Europe.
Greater awareness among the general public was won after the success in the competition through the media.
Last year, however, was not only full of the euphoria of victories in FARMET.
Awards were based on firm economic performance until 2008 and only partly from 2009.
And just 2009 was the toughest year for the sale of engineering goods.
Crisis was at its very peak, not touching so many people yet, but companies had stopped their investment projects and began to restrict purchases of new machinery and technology.
"The situation obviously did not spare us."
A viable company must be able to take even such unpopular measures sometimes.
However, they managed and retained the profit, even though lower than before the crisis.
However, what FARMET would not compromise, is the investment in research and development.
The crisis seems to be behind them.
Revenues are growing again and so is the number of new employees.
Survey that removes absurd regulations
Poll of the Absurdities is a part of the business competition for the fourth time.
Some ridiculous regulations have are already been removed.
Infamous winner of next year's Poll of Absurdities was the absurd obligation to bring documents that are accessible for officials online to the authorities.
It was chosen by more than a third of almost four thousand votes.
For example, Social Security Administration required a paper certificate of incorporation, although the officer can obtain one by two clicks of a mouse.
Thanks to the poll, this will change.
To crack down on all the rules and regulations that companies and businesses in the Czech Republic must meet, and remove those that lack sense, is the essence of the Poll of Absurdities.
If about three thousand voters were involved in the vote last year, there were nearly four thousand voters earlier this year.
And not surprisingly, there are still many legal obligations, which only serve to delay the business.
"For instance in the number of papers required for tax returns we keep the top places in the world," said Karel Havlicek of the Association of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Crafts in CR.
Simplification of business has in recent years become a stated objective of all governments.
But compared with the rest of the world the situation has not really improved in the Czech Republic.
According to the World Bank, in terms of business conditions the Czech Republic was ranked 74th position; it is eight points less than last year.
The Poll of Absurdities was first launched in 2006 and takes place every year under the same scenario.
Anyone may propose administrative and bureaucratic nonsenses every year from April to September, when is there is the deadline for the competition.
The absurdity that gets most votes wins.
In this survey more than a hundred, 105 to be precise, meaningless rules and regulations were filed.
Tips were received from entrepreneurs, but also professional associations and journalists.
Among the "finalists" of the contest was for instance the requirement that the trucks for maintenance of highways were to pay road-tolls, or that businesses with twenty employees, two offices and two toilets had those painted every two years.
The list of this year's seven proposals is posted on the website of the contest.
Announcement of the competition, which always takes place in early November on Wenceslas Square in Prague is part of the hapenning, regularly attended by personalities of the political and social life.
This year, for example, the finale of the competition was assisted by Eva Svobodova, director of the Association of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Crafts in CR and Petr Kuzel, president of the Chamber of Commerce in CR.
"Economic prosperity can not work where the state is throwing business in its own foot, so my goal is to annually remove at least three dozen paragraphs, which today only unnecessarily complicate the business," said Minister of Industry and Trade Martin Kocourek.
Efforts to abolish meaningless regulations has rather positive load.
In 2007 most people were against the obligation of a business to report their intention to take part at the exhibition or fair with their stand three days ahead to the trade office at the place where its permanent establishment is located.
This has been removed by an amendment to the Trade Act.
The second most voted obligation in 2007, which was reporting a business trip of foreign staff lasting up to 30 days to the Labour Office, was removed by the so-called Green Card Act.
And last but not least.
Absurdity of 2009 was the obligation of physiotherapists to have a large mirror, a refrigerator and two stepping scales in the office.
It was mitigated by the Ministry of Health this year - the obligation to have a refrigerator has been removed.
New category recognizes socially responsible companies
Environmental, humanitarian, educational and sports projects are considered.
New in the fifth year of HN Daily competition is the category called the Responsible Company in 2010.
The mission of this competition is to promote reasonable and fair business.
"We want this to support companies that reflect their business" impact on the environment and encourage socially responsible activities," says Patrik Bartholdy, regional manager of Vodafone mobile operator company, which is the promoter and guarantor of the competition, as well as in the case of the rebel competition.
In the first year of this special subcategory of the main Vodafone competition Company of the year 2010, companies, for whom success in business is not the only long-term goal, signed for the competition.
Each story is very inspirational and would be enough for a separate article.
Although the nature of their activities varies considerably, the common denominator of their efforts may be the support and thoughtfulness.
In one case, for example, it relates to people with disabilities and elsewhere to personal problems or health of their employees.
Among the fourteen finalists in CR we find a Prague-located software company Et Netera who supports the creation of informal sports teams of staff which then participate in a number of tournaments in different sports.
Another example of a responsible company from the Pardubice region is the company Isolit-Bravo, who has been a major contributor to the endowment fund for handicapped children for seventeen years.
Old mill of Podebrady then takes care of their disabled employees, who are more than 70 percent of the whole staff, and was thus awarded with the title of Responsible Company in the Central Bohemia Region and won the third place in the Vodafone competition Company of the year.
In the Olomouc region the award was received by MiRyz Soft accounting firm, which has introduced flexible working hours in addition to the reduced average 35 hours per week but did not reduce salary proportionately.
The title was also awarded to the company because they preferably buy from Czech manufacturers, promote civic activities in the neighborhood and protect the environment.
"In addition, we support the People in Need Foundation, which helps the local Roma community in particular," says company representative Ondrej Suchy.
For the Responsible Company of the Year category were automatically enrolled all regional finalists of Vodafone Company of the Year competition, who answered the questionnaire attached to the application and sent it to organizers until 15 August.
Incorrectly filled or incomplete answers to the questionnaire were then excluded from the evaluation by the organizer.
"If the representatives of competing companies failed to answer the questions, they could not attend the Responsible Company of the Year Competition, but are not disqualified from the "main" Vodafone competition Company of the Year."
"Single sign just for this competition is not possible because it is a subcategory of the main competition Company of the year," explains Karel Goldman of the organizing agency Bison & Rose.
Police made arrests at the Land Fund in Plzen during the tendering procedure
In recent days the anti-corruption police made arrests at the building of the Land Fund in Pilsen.
He allegedly attempted to manipulate the current tender for the settlement of restitution claims, so that the land offered was awarded to a particular candidate.
The 46-year-old entrepreneur was released by police after 24 hours.
Due to a low of official information we can only speculate how one could manipulate the tender.
"It was a client, not our employee," she said.
The public tender, according to Ms. Cerna, is called "Invitation to tender for the transfer of land rights under the Lands Act" and takes place when more eligible candidates are interested in the land offered.
"These people within the call offer a higher value of their restitution claims to be settled by the transfer than the announced value of the land."
"By the claims offered the order of the acquirers is set and Land Fund then transfers the land to the person who offered the highest claims," said fund spokesman.
The candidate probably received financial compensation.
That would explain that he was detained with such a large sum of money.
Lubos G had superior contacts to LF already in the past.
He figured in the case of former chief of LF Vaclav Sankot, who was prosecuted for transferring lands in the substitutional land restitution, on which a decision on the location of a building has already been issued.
It was just then when Mr Lubos G. acquired lands intended for the construction of public roads from the fund, particularly at the point where the driveway was to be built to the industrial zone Borska pole.
Later, he very conveniently exchanged those with the city for a house in the historic town center, which had a much higher value.
Town hall had to accept it then, because otherwise it would block the construction by blocking the lands.
Households will pay extra hundreds for housing a month
Households will have to pay more since January, not only for all types of energy, but also for water and sewerage, heating supplies, and rents will rise in certain areas.
Families will have to pull out monthly hundreds more from purses from January.
The price of electricity will be raised up by 4.6 percent; gas will be about 2 percent more expensive, in some towns you will have to pay extra for water by up to a tenth and supply of central heating will often be more expensive.
Electricity price increase should cost houshould s in the flats hundreds of crowns a year more than now.